
https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/closing-digital-divides-boosting-broadcasting-and-reducing-regulatory-burdens-cf911ee5cf16

I’ve had the honor of serving as the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission since January 23. By law, the FCC is required to hold at least one public meeting each month at which it votes on an agenda set by the agency’s Chairman. And so it is that, for the first time, I have the privilege to set the agenda for the FCC’s upcoming February 2017 meeting.

Today also happens to be Groundhog Day. Fittingly, this month’s robust docket features two priorities I’ve touted on a perpetual loop since becoming Chairman: closing the digital divide and removing unnecessary regulations. As an added tribute to the legendary weatherman Phil Connors of WPBH-Pittsburgh, the Commission is also moving forward with two actions to boost U.S. broadcasting.

Closing the Digital Divide. — I’ve talked a lot about the need to promote digital empowerment: to enable any American who wants high-speed Internet access, or broadband, to get it. To further that purpose, the Commission will consider two separate orders to spur the buildout of mobile and fixed broadband networks in rural America.

Here’s the background on the first one, known in the parlance as the “Mobility Fund.” Right now, the federal government spends about $25 million of taxpayer money each month to subsidize wireless carriers in areas where private capital has been spent building out networks. This is perhaps a textbook definition of waste: public funds being spent to do what the private sector has already done.

Three weeks from now, we will vote on redirecting that spending to something far more useful: bringing 4G LTE service to rural Americans who don’t have it today. I am proposing to couple our detailed coverage data with a robust challenge process to identify the areas most in need of service. And I propose using a competitive “reverse auction” to allocate this support to preserve and extend 4G LTE coverage throughout our nation.

But that’s not all. With respect to the second order, the Commission will also vote to finalize the rules for allocating nearly $2 billion from the Connect America Fund, which aims to advance broadband service across the country. Here again, we will direct financial support to deploy fixed broadband in unserved rural areas using a competitive reverse auction. My aim is to get the best deal for the American people with the universal service dollars we have available.

Boosting American Broadcasting. — Next on the agenda will be two ideas designed to help broadcasters provide better service.

The first involves letting the broadcast business innovate and fully enter the digital era. Engineers in the broadcast industry have been feverishly at work developing a new transmission standard that would let broadcasters merge the capabilities of over-the-air broadcasting with broadband connectivity. This Next Gen TV standard, also known as ATSC 3.0, is the first one to leverage the power of the Internet, and it promises to dramatically transform broadcasting. To name a few advances, it would enable ultra-HD video. It would enable more localized information — functionality especially useful during a public safety emergency. And it would allow consumers to easily watch over-the-air programming on their mobile devices.

Before broadcasters can roll out these new services, the FCC must first authorize use of the Next Gen TV standard. In three weeks, the Commission will vote to begin the process of permitting broadcasters to do so on a voluntary basis. I hope that we can issue a final approval of the standard later this year.

The second Commission item involves the longstanding medium of radio. The FCC is fully committed to giving radio broadcasters a chance to thrive. And this month, we will have an opportunity to build on our successful efforts to revitalize AM radio. Over 1,000 AM stations have taken advantage of recent FCC reforms by obtaining FM translators to grow their audience. At the same time, we have heard from broadcasters that the FCC’s rules make finding a location for these translators unnecessarily challenging. The proposal before the Commission would therefore offer greater flexibility to AM stations in siting their translators. It’s a simple step, but one that would help AM broadcasters build a stronger bridge to the future.

Removing Unnecessary Regulations. — Closing out our agenda will be two items eliminating unnecessary and burdensome rules.

Regulatory mandates have a disproportionate effect on small businesses. Accordingly, I’ve proposed reinstating an exemption for small Internet service providers from enhanced reporting requirements contained in the Title II Order. These rules impose unnecessary burdens on small businesses, many of which are critical to increasing competition in the broadband marketplace. The Commission will be voting on an order that extends this exemption for an additional five years — an order directly modeled on bipartisan legislation recently adopted in the House and introduced in the Senate.

The Commission will also consider how to minimize the compliance burdens created by the Commission’s arcane accounting rules for one segment of the telecommunications market. These rules are onerous, complicated, often as needless as a conversation with Ned Ryerson. By simplifying them, we will enable companies to stop investing in paperwork and focus on expanding and upgrading their networks.

* * *

I look forward to working with my fellow Commissioners on this aggressive agenda to connect Americans on the wrong side of the digital divide, to allow broadcasters to innovate and better serve viewers, and to reduce unnecessary regulations. And Groundhog Day or not, you can expect that I will return to these themes over and over and over again.

https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/setting-the-record-straight-on-the-digital-divide-615a9da1f2d1

In my first remarks as Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission to the agency’s terrific staff, I stressed that one of my top priorities would be to close the digital divide — the gap between those who use cutting-edge communications services and those who do not. I’ve explored that divide for myself in Barrow, Alaska; Los Angeles, California; Clay, West Virginia; and many more places. Now that I’m at the helm of the agency, I’m determined to address it.

We’ve already hit the ground running. In the first vote under my Chairmanship, I worked with New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, Senator Charles Schumer, Representative Chris Collins, and other officials to direct $170 million in federal funding to build out broadband in upstate New York to places that are currently unserved.

In the second week of my Chairmanship, I shared with my colleagues and set votes for February 23 on two detailed proposals for closing the digital divide. One of them would direct billions of dollars — with a “b” — over a decade toward making sure that all parts of this country have 4G LTE coverage. (Currently, there are too many gaps where your phone displays “No Service” — as I saw for myself during a recent drive from Wichita, Kansas to Des Moines, Iowa.) The other would allocate nearly $2 billion — again with a “b” — for advancing fixed broadband service across the country. With more connectivity, more Americans than ever before will have digital opportunity.

Finally, I’ve engaged with Members of Congress about my proposal for Gigabit Opportunity Zones. Under this infrastructure plan, the government would use tax incentives to encourage the deployment of ultra-fast broadband in lower-income areas as small as an urban city block and as large as a rural county. It would also encourage entrepreneurs to take advantage of these next-generation networks by creating jobs in those areas. Gigabit Opportunity Zones would enable Americans to become participants in, rather than spectators of, the digital economy. They would be a powerful solution to the digital divide. I hope our elected officials will give the idea serious consideration.

* * *

At the same time, one recent FCC decision has caused some controversy of late. Specifically, some have asked why the agency’s Wireline Competition Bureau issued an order reconsidering nine companies’ eligibility to participate in the Lifeline program, which aims to help make voice and broadband more affordable to low-income Americans. It’s vital that low-income Americans have access to communications services, including broadband Internet, which Lifeline helps to achieve.

Unfortunately, many of the media headlines have sensationalized this story and given some an entirely misleading impression of what is going on. Indeed, based on the some of the coverage, one would think that we had ended Lifeline broadband subsidies altogether. So I want to set the record straight about the modest steps we have taken and why we have taken them.

First, our action only impacted 9 of the over 900 providers participating in the Lifeline program. In other words, 99% of the companies participating in the program are not affected at all.

Second, the applications of these nine providers to participate in the program have not been rejected. They simply remain pending at the Commission.

Third, all but one of the newly designated providers covered by the order do not yet have any customers.

Fourth, the prior FCC disregarded the well-established process for approving applications like these. As the National Tribal Telecommunications Association pointed out, several of the providers had never coordinated their applications with Tribes, despite an FCC rule clearly requiring them to do so. These Tribal representatives thus requested that the designations be reversed. Moreover, two of the designated providers were approved in the middle of the 30-day period for public comment — that is, before the public even had a chance to weigh in on the designation. Whatever one thinks of the merits of these applications, that was plainly improper.

Fifth, many of these designations were approved in the last days of the last Administration (two days before Inauguration Day, over the objections of two of the four Commissioners, despite the fact that the FCC’s congressional oversight committees had requested that the Commission not take controversial actions during the transition between Administrations (consistent with the request from those same committees during the Republican-to-Democrat transition in 2008–09). Thus, a majority of Commissioners never supported approval of these designations.

Sixth, every dollar that is spent on subsidizing somebody who doesn’t need the help by definition does not go to someone who does. That means that the Commission needs to make sure that there are strong safeguards against waste, fraud, and abuse before expanding the program to new providers. But consider:

§ The National Verifier — which is a new database that is intended to verify eligibility to participate in the Lifeline program — does not currently exist and will not start operating until the end of 2017. Further, it is not scheduled to cover all states until 2019.

§ My investigation last year into these matters revealed serious weaknesses in federal safeguards, allowing providers to indiscriminately override checks that are supposed to prevent wasteful and fraudulent activities. (These checks include common-sense steps like verifying the identity of would-be Lifeline recipients.) From October 2014 until June 2016, wireless resellers had overridden such safeguards 4,291,647 times in total.

§ The investigation also uncovered other loopholes, including one that let a company claim subsidies for approximately 22,000 phantom subscribers each month in the state of Michigan.

Seventh and finally, there is a serious question as to whether the FCC has the legal authority to designate Lifeline providers or whether such designations must be made by state governments, as has long been the norm. Indeed, well before the prior FCC issued these last-minute designations, state regulatory agencies had filed a substantial legal challenge to the entire process of the FCC designating Lifeline Broadband Providers, arguing that it’s unlawful, and the FCC itself recently asked the court for additional time to consider this issue. For instance, Section 214 of the Communications Act explicitly says that states must make designations for purposes of allowing companies to receive Lifeline subsidies. The FCC has repeatedly, and for many years, recognized states’ primary role in this area. By preempting the states’ role in certification, the federal designations appear to run afoul of this legal framework. Putting the designations on hold gives the FCC the chance to make sure the process is legally defensible and to avoid potentially stranding customers if the courts ultimately deem the process unlawful.

Hyperbolic headlines always attract more attention than mundane truths. For example, a story detailing how the FCC was undertaking further review of the eligibility of 1% of Lifeline providers wouldn’t generate too many clicks. That’s long been the case in policy debates, of course. But at the end of the day, my focus has been — and will continue to be so long as I have the privilege of serving as the Chairman of the FCC — doing everything within the FCC’s power to close the digital divide. I am committed, both by belief and by law, to ensuring that the agency is focused on the 21st century version of our 20th century charge: “to make available, so far as possible, to all the people of the United States, without discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex, a rapid, efficient, Nation-wide, and world-wide wire and radio communication service with adequate facilities at reasonable charges.” We’ve made progress over the past few weeks, and we’ll do more in the time to come to benefit all Americans.

https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/but-wait-theres-more-d46d5c78719c

Yesterday, I delivered remarks announcing my plans to repeal the Commission’s heavy-handed “Title II” regulation of the Internet and return the United States to the bipartisan, light-touch regulatory framework that preserved a free and open Internet for almost 20 years. To kick off this process, I’ve shared with my fellow Commissioners and the American public a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) that seeks public input on the best path forward. This proposal will headline the Commission’s May open meeting, but it’s hardly the only piece of business we’ll be considering. Having already detailed my proposal to free the Internet from Depression-era regulation, I’d like to highlight the other items on our May docket.

While they may not have received as much attention as my Title II rollback plan, I also previewed two items from our May agenda in a recent speech at the National Association of Broadcasters’ annual gathering in Las Vegas.

The first is an item to initiate a comprehensive review of our media rules to identify which ones are still necessary and which should be relaxed or repealed. We not only want to root out antiquated rules that have outlived their usefulness, we also want to explore whether certain rules should be modified to provide regulatory relief to small businesses. If approved, this item would solicit public input on which rules to modify and why.

With close to 1,000 pages of rules on the books regulating broadcast, cable, and satellite television, many of them decades old, I’m confident this inquiry would uncover some candidates for reform. (Note: this review will not cover the FCC’s media ownership regulations, which the Commission is already obligated by statute to review on a regular basis.)

A second media item on our May agenda would eliminate one such counterproductive rule, which we have already identified. To enable and encourage community input, each AM, FM, and television broadcast station is currently required by FCC rule to maintain a “main studio” that is located in or near its community of license. But thanks to technological innovations, notably the online “public file,” we can give broadcasters additional flexibility by repealing the “main studio” rule without sacrificing transparency or community engagement. In three weeks, the Commission will vote on a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that tees up eliminating the Commission’s main studio rule for both radio and television broadcasters. My thanks to Commissioner O’Rielly for championing this cause.

Next on the agenda will be a proposal to revise a rule that has directly harmed rural consumers. In connection with the FCC’s 2011 reforms of the FCC’s subsidy program known as the Universal Service Fund (USF), the Commission required recipients of USF subsidies to impose minimum monthly rates for telephone service. The thinking then was that the law calls for rates to be “reasonably comparable” and that customers needed to pay a certain minimum rate to make sure that subsidies weren’t being wasted. The problem is this so-called “rate floor” now forces many rural customers to pay higher rates than some of their urban counterparts, including those in Washington, DC. It seems to me that the last thing the FCC should do is mandate price increases for rural consumers above rates paid by some of their urban counterparts, especially considering that average incomes in rural areas tend to be lower than those in cities. Also, the law requires “just, reasonable, and affordable” rates, which the rate floor doesn’t seem to respect. The FCC therefore will be voting on an NPRM to eliminate this “rate floor” and related reporting requirements. We also be voting to immediately freeze the rate floor to prevent rural telephone rates from rising in July.

The Commission will also consider a Report and Order that would amend our rules regarding wireless devices such as walkie-talkies, CB radios and remote-control toys — what we call Personal Radio Services. These devices generally use low-power transmitters, communicate over shared radio frequencies, and (with a few exceptions) do not require an individual FCC license for each user. The Commission will be voting to complete a thorough review of our Personal Radio Services rules in order to modernize them, remove outdated regulatory requirements, and reorganize them to make it easier to find information.

Finally, the Commission will be taking up a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to streamline our rules that govern the antennas (earth stations) used to provide satellite based services to ships, airplanes and vehicles on the ground. The regulation of these earth stations, collectively known as “earth stations in motion” (ESIMs), currently varies depending on the type of vehicle to which they are attached. We will consider new rules for the operation of ESIMs that would eliminate redundancies, reduce the burden on our applicants, and allow FCC staff to process applications more quickly.

No question, my proposal to repeal Title II regulation and restore Internet freedom will garner most of the headlines on May 18. But make no mistake: the FCC will be taking up a diverse array of proposals to modernize our rules and deliver benefits to consumers.

https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/supporting-our-public-safety-heroes-9f9d0b5946c3

You may never need them, but if you do, they’ll be there.

It’s that bedrock promise of protection that makes our public safety officials the unsung heroes that they are. Whether it’s police officers, firefighters, first responders, or 911 dispatchers, many dedicated Americans work long hours, and often in difficult conditions, to make sure that when someone’s in need, they can help.

One of the reasons why Congress created the FCC — a reason it embedded in the very first section of the Communications Act of 1934 — was “for the purpose of promoting safety of life and property through the use of wire and radio communications.” At our next public meeting on June 22, the FCC will aim to meet this charge by considering three ways to help law enforcement and first responders do their jobs. We will recognize and support these often-unsung heroes during Public Safety Month at the Commission.

I had the privilege of previewing one of these items, relating to “Blue Alerts,” at the U.S. Department of Justice a couple of weeks ago. The Emergency Alert System (EAS) has saved countless lives by warning TV viewers or radio listeners about matters like a child who has been abducted (now-familiar “Amber Alerts”) or extreme weather. I have proposed authorizing a new EAS code for imminent threats against law enforcement. Blue Alerts can warn the public when there is actionable information related to a law enforcement officer who is missing, seriously injured, or killed in the line of duty, or when there is a credible, short-term threat to an officer. If a violent suspect is in your immediate community, Blue Alerts could give you instructions on what to do. These instructions could help you stay safe and help supply time-sensitive information to authorities if a suspect is sighted.

If this item is approved, we’ll then seek public input on whether the EAS is the right way to deliver Blue Alerts. We’ll also explore whether a dedicated EAS code can enable the uniform, nationwide delivery of Blue Alerts to the public.

Speaking of nationwide communications systems, the second public safety matter we’ll consider would get us closer to finally creating a nationwide, interoperable broadband network that public safety officials can use. This initiative, which began several years ago, is known as the First Responder Network Authority, or FirstNet. As directed by the Public Safety Spectrum Act of 2012, the FCC has already provided FirstNet a license for 20 MHz of wireless broadband spectrum. We have already given FirstNet the basic technical requirements for the network. And our spectrum auctions have produced billions of dollars that will be used to help fund construction of the public safety network.

Buildout of this nationwide network is now set to begin. States have the option to “opt out” of this system and build their own public safety radio networks, but only if the FCC determines that the state’s proposed network will be interoperable with FirstNet. At our June meeting, the FCC will vote on the procedures and standards we will use for reviewing a state’s alternative plan — that is, to ensure that these public safety networks remain interoperable. We are committed to working with FirstNet and all state and local partners to make sure that first responders have the tools they need to communicate seamlessly with each other during emergencies.

The third public safety item responds to issues raised by a recent spike in threatening calls targeting schools and religious organizations. The FCC’s current rules require voice providers not to reveal blocked Caller ID information or to use that information to allow the person getting a call to contact the caller. These rules have an important purpose, but they can raise a particular public safety concern.

Earlier this year, as you may remember, numerous Jewish Community Centers received a number of threatening phone calls. I’m proud that the FCC swiftly issued a temporary waiver allowing JCCs to work with carriers and law enforcement to identify callers. But this episode raised the question of whether we need to make permanent changes to our rules. At our June meeting, the Commission will tackle that question. Specifically, we’ll consider a proposal to change the rules to ensure that all threatened parties and associated law enforcement personnel have quick access to the information they need to identify and thwart threatening callers.

Now, while the FCC’s June meeting will be headlined by these public safety items, that’s not all that’s on tap.

· One of our top priorities remains promoting broadband competition and deployment. Accordingly, we will vote on an order paving the way for the company OneWeb to provide broadband services using satellite technology that holds unique promise to expand Internet access in remote and rural areas.

· Additionally, the FCC will consider in June a Notice of Inquiry seeking public input on ways to facilitate greater competition and consumer choice for Internet service in apartment complexes, office building, and other so-called “multi-tenant environments.”

· Consistent with our work to streamline outdated and unnecessary rules, we will consider a proposal to eliminate the annual audit and associated reporting requirement for payphone service providers. (We’re no longer living in the days of The Wire where payphone use was common.)

· As part of our effort to modernize our rules for the digital age, we are also taking up a Declaratory Ruling that would make clear that the “annual notices” cable operators have to deliver to their subscribers via paper mail may be delivered electronically.

· And finally, we will be voting on an item from the Commission’s Enforcement Bureau. For law enforcement reasons, we are unable to discuss it publicly before the June 22 meeting.

As we head into summer, millions of Americans will be watching their favorite heroes on the silver screen (paging Wonder Woman), the basketball court (my prediction: Golden State over Cleveland in 7), and elsewhere. But let’s also remember those less-heralded heroes who make sacrifices every day on our behalf, especially the men and women in law enforcement who put on the uniform and put their lives on the line for us. During Public Safety Month in June, I’m proud that the FCC will be honoring that commitment.

https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/heading-together-toward-the-future-d0800a5e16da

My post introducing the FCC’s infrastructure initiatives a few weeks ago mentioned Marty McFly’s misguided worries about running out of road in the 1985 film “Back to the Future.” As you might remember, Dr. Brown assured Marty that roads wouldn’t be needed in the future.

The wireless networks of the future too will look very different. Instead of just big towers that intermittently dot the landscape, the wireless networks of our future will rely on much smaller building blocks — things like “small cells” and “distributed antenna systems.” These new kinds of infrastructure take up much less space. They are generally much less noticeable. And because they operate at lower power, they will be much more commonly deployed at many more locations than towers.

As we move from the networks of today to those of tomorrow, the FCC wants to work collaboratively with everyone affected — particularly Tribal partners. That’s why, later this month, I’ll hit the road to discuss this transition with Tribal Nations. Some FCC coworkers and I have been kindly invited to attend the Mid-Year Session of the National Conference of American Indians (NCAI), which is the “oldest, largest, and most representative American Indian and Alaska Native organization” serving Tribal interests. We’ll be participating in consultation sessions with a number of Tribes (and in addition to these NCAI sessions, dedicated FCC staff are already doing outreach to Tribes on both conference calls and visits to Indian Country).

The FCC has a long and successful history of working with Tribes on a wide range of issues affecting Indian Country. These relationships led us to create a groundbreaking system, the Tower Construction Notification System (TCNS). This is an online system that notifies federally recognized Tribes, Native Hawaiian Organizations, and State Historic Preservation Officers about proposed wireless construction projects. The TCNS is widely acknowledged by Tribal Nations, industry, and other government entities as an important, effective tool to help ensure that these projects respect historic properties of religious and cultural significance to Tribes.

The rules, protocols, and practices governing TCNS were crafted more than a decade ago, and as I mentioned earlier, advances in wireless networks are proceeding apace. It’s a challenge to match the two, but the FCC is aiming to do that in order to modernize our rules and close the digital divide. I’m excited to discuss this initiative with our Tribal partners. Going forward — just as in the past — we want to ensure that potential effects on culturally significant sites are identified and alternatives to avoid or minimize such effects are considered.

I believe that the FCC and Tribal Nations share the same goal — ensuring high-speed Internet access to anyone who wants it, while respecting and preserving sites with historic, religious, and cultural significance to Tribes. To achieve this goal, the FCC needs to and wants to exchange perspectives with Tribes on the full range of issues associated with the deployment of wireless broadband infrastructure. I’m personally committed to that.

I invite the leaders of the 567 federally-recognized Tribes and Native Hawaiian Organizations to join this important conversation. The FCC takes seriously its federal trust responsibilities and wants to have meaningful consultations. I look forward to listening, learning, and working together to sustain and improve our processes as our wireless networks go back to the future.

https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/consumer-protection-month-at-the-fcc-1dea0007d9c6

Americans are reaping the benefits of rapid and exciting changes in the ways we communicate. But many of the problems that consumers confront stubbornly remain.

For too long, Americans have been plagued by unwanted and unlawful robocalls. For too long, they’ve found unauthorized charges and changes to their phone service on their bills — practices commonly known as “slamming” and “cramming.” And for too long, some phone calls that are placed to rural residents have been dropped.

Efforts to excommunicate this unholy triad of consumer scourges — unlawful robocalls, slamming/cramming, and rural call completion — headline the FCC’s agenda in July. During Consumer Protection Month, we will take up several public interest initiatives to address problems that too many Americans face.


Unlawful robocalls generate the most frequent source of consumer complaints to the FCC. As agency-watchers know, we’re not starting from scratch in attacking the problem. This past March, the Commission proposed to give voice providers greater leeway to block many “spoofed” calls — specifically, calls that purport to be from unassigned or invalid phone numbers. This move will hopefully pave the way for Do-Not-Originate lists that will help stifle the efforts of illegitimate callers and scam artists. And we’ve made robocalls our top enforcement priority. Just today, the FCC took a major step, proposing to fine the alleged perpetrator of a vast spoofing operation $120 million for the 96 million robocalls he unleashed on American consumers in just three months — robocalls that bilked many vulnerable consumers out of their hard-earned money.

In July, we’re going to address two other issues that could help combat robocalls. First, we’ll explore setting up a reliable system for authenticating phone calls. Among other things, this system would verify that a phone call is really coming from the phone number that shows up on caller ID. Right now, too many malicious robocallers hide their true originating phone number. This lets them evade call-blocking or filtering tools and trick consumers about a call’s true source. An authentication system would help to crack down on this behavior and strengthen call-blocking. I’ve shared a proposal along these lines with my colleagues.

Next month, we’ll also begin to address the problem of calls that are made to reassigned phone numbers. Here’s the scenario: a customer consents to receive calls from a particular business. But later, he switches phone numbers. Someone new is then assigned that customer’s old phone number. She ends up receiving calls that she doesn’t want.

This might seem like a highly specific problem, but an estimated 100,000 numbers are reassigned by wireless carriers every day, with errant phone calls following. So this issue confronts millions of Americans. To tackle this problem, the FCC will vote on considering how reassigned telephone number data could easily be made available to businesses, such as through a consolidated database. Those businesses — restaurants, furniture stores, and the like — could use such a database to ensure that their calls reach the intended recipients.


Too often, we learn about unscrupulous carriers that are targeting the vulnerable. For example, the FCC recently heard from an elderly woman who received a call about a postal service package that supposedly hadn’t been delivered. Her verbal responses were then used to unwittingly switch her phone carrier. This case is a bread-and-butter case of deception to “slam” an older consumer.

To address cases like hers, I’m proposing a rule that would expressly ban misrepresentations on sales calls that typically precede a slam. I’m also urging changes to our regulations that would make it harder for fraudsters to “cram” consumers — that is, put unauthorized charges on consumers’ phone bills.


Protecting consumers goes beyond just fighting illicit schemes. It also involves making sure that they get what they pay for. Unfortunately, rural telephone customers aren’t always assured of that. Calls to rural areas drop or never go through too often. In fact, we know that call failure occurs at higher rates for rural consumers than it does for urban ones.

This isn’t right. Whether you live in a big city or a small town, a call placed by a loved one, friend, or customer should go through.

In 2013, the FCC took action to address this problem. The number of rural call completion complaints we receive has dropped since then. But we’re still not where we need to be. That’s why I’m proposing new steps to make our rural call completion rules more effective and less burdensome. In particular, I’m asking the FCC to adopt new, strong rural call completion requirements for certain telecommunications carriers. At the same time, we want calls to rural America to remain affordable, so we’re looking at ways to reduce the burden of existing regulations, such as by eliminating some of the paperwork carriers must file with the Commission that hasn’t proven to be very useful.


Another way the FCC protects consumers is by making sure communications services are accessible to Americans with disabilities. At our meeting, the agency will consider rules to expand the availability of video-described programming on top-rated broadcast and non-broadcast networks. Specifically, we’ll vote on increasing the number of hours of programming that covered broadcasters and video programmers must provide by 75%. If we take this step, blind and visually-impaired Americans will be able to better understand and enjoy a wider range of popular programming.


Our consumer protection agenda for July won’t stop there. Harnessing the power of technology to promote innovation is another FCC priority that empowers consumers. This is increasingly true when they’re on the road. For instance, radars in vehicles can enable a variety of safety features such as collision avoidance. To encourage this kind of innovation, the FCC will consider rules that would allocate a large block of high-band frequencies (76–81 GHz spectrum) for use by vehicular radars — if you will, the advanced sensors that are being placed in cars. This spectrum, among other things, would support new short-range radar applications to enhance driver safety.

Rounding out the FCC’s July agenda is a proposal to bring our equipment authorization rules up to date, as well as a proposal to revise our rules governing wireless microphones.

After yesterday’s summer solstice, the days are getting shorter again. But the list of items on the Commission’s July agenda remains long. During Consumer Protection Month, we’ll extend our efforts to address the problems Americans confront in the communications marketplace and to crack down on those who prey upon the vulnerable for their own financial gain.

https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/modernization-month-at-the-fcc-5e0b1232b200

This week, I had the opportunity to travel to Texas to survey the damage caused by Hurricane Harvey and to learn first-hand from local, state, and federal officials about the response and recovery efforts. While many parts of southeast Texas are still drying out, the country is also paying attention to Hurricane Irma as it sweeps through the Caribbean and bears down on Florida. As with Harvey, the Commission is working closely with our partners to monitor Irma’s impact on communication networks and support restoration and recovery efforts.

Although these historic storms have understandably been the Commission’s top priority over the past two weeks, the everyday work of the Commission goes on. And today, we are announcing a robust agenda for our September open meeting.

Since becoming Chairman, I have consistently emphasized the need for the Commission’s regulations to match realities of the current marketplace. Our rules must reflect today’s technological and economic conditions, not those of yesterday. And at this month’s open meeting, we will advance this objective by focusing on whether to update or scrap outdated rules. That’s why we’re dubbing September Modernization Month at the FCC.

I already previewed two of the items yesterday at the Radio Show in Austin, Texas. One is the first product of the comprehensive review of our media regulations which we launched this May. The goal of this review is to update our media rules to reflect today’s media marketplace.

It turns out that one obsolete FCC media rule on the books is literally about books of FCC media rules. The Commission currently requires certain broadcasters and cable operators to maintain paper copies of FCC rules. With this information now available online, where it can easily be accessed from your smartphone, that doesn’t make sense. So we’ll be voting on a proposal to eliminate this outdated requirement.

And this is just the start of our media modernization efforts. The Commission received many good suggestions for rules that need to be revised or repealed. So for the foreseeable future, I’ll be sharing with my fellow Commissioners each and every month at least one Notice of Proposed Rulemaking teeing up unnecessary media regulations that should be eliminated or modified.

The second item I discussed at the Radio Show is an Order that would update our AM radio regulations as part of our AM Revitalization Initiative. Specifically, we’ll vote on relaxing certain technical rules applicable to AM broadcasters operating directional antenna arrays in order to ease the regulatory and financial burdens faced by these broadcasters.

Of course, when it comes to the media space, the FCC’s broadcast rules aren’t the only ones in need of modernization. Our cable regulations also haven’t kept up with the times. For example, even though the vast majority of cable operators have transitioned from analog to digital, the FCC’s cable signal quality and signal leakage regulations are still designed for the analog era. Back in 2012, the Commission proposed to update these regulations. Unfortunately, that proposal sat on the shelf for half a decade. No more. In September, the Commission will vote on an Order to modernize our signal quality and signal leakage regulations for the digital world.

You can add the satellite industry to the list of sectors where technological change has outpaced changes in the Commission’s rules. Our current regulations covering non-geostationary-satellite orbit (NGSO), fixed-satellite service (FSS) systems were generally adopted in the early 2000s and reflect the satellite designs of that era. Given recent trends in the satellite industry and changes in satellite technology, the Commission began a review last year of the rules governing NGSO FSS operations to better accommodate this next generation of systems. These systems could expand broadband access, especially in the most rural and remote areas of our nation. And at this month’s meeting, the Commission will be voting to update and streamline several of our existing rules.

One area where we can least afford for our rules to be out-of-date is public safety. Here, one issue of particular concern to me has been the ability of Americans to reach 911 when using centralized communications systems, such as those that serve office buildings, schools, and hotels. I’ve often spoken about Hank Hunt’s advocacy for Kari’s Law. This is legislation named after his daughter, who died during a fatal attack in a hotel room. Kari’s daughter tried calling 911 repeatedly from that room. But she never reached help because the hotel phone required that she first dial nine. I’m encouraged that both chambers of Congress recently passed versions of Kari’s Law, which would help ensure that Americans can call 911 directly.

But there’s more that can be done to improve 911 calling in these environments. That’s why I have circulated a Notice of Inquiry that seeks information on why the 911 capabilities of these systems appear to be lagging. We want to ensure that emergency calls from these locations are routed to the appropriate 911 call center and include the precise location and routing information needed for the caller to be found quickly.

Of course, part of making sure our rules reflect the modern marketplace is accurately assessing current market conditions. Congress requires the FCC to issue an annual report on the status of competition in the mobile wireless industry and further requires the FCC to analyze “whether or not” effective competition exists. At our September meeting, the Commission will consider the 20th Mobile Wireless Competition Report. The Report covers a lot of ground, but the topline finding is that, for the first time since 2009, the Report would actually answer this question. Specifically, the report reviews a number of facts, trends, and characteristics that taken together indicate there is effective competition in the marketplace for mobile wireless services.

I also think that it is important that Commissioners are once again being provided with the opportunity to vote on this. From 2014 to 2016, Commissioners weren’t allowed to vote on Wireless Competition Reports. Instead, they were issued on delegated authority by the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau. I objected at the time to bypassing Commissioners in this manner. Now, as part of our ongoing effort to bring more openness and transparency to the FCC, we are putting this year’s Report up for a public Commission vote.

In addition to changing market conditions, a big reason to modernize FCC rules is evidence that our rules are creating adverse impacts. Currently, all device manufacturers and wireless service providers, regardless of size, are required to file annual reports with the Commission detailing their efforts to make sure wireless handsets are compatible with hearing aid devices. Small and rural service providers, however, have repeatedly asked for relief from the burden of preparing these reports. In three weeks, we will vote on an item to seek comment on whether we can eliminate or streamline the requirement for small carriers, while continuing to preserve the benefits of collecting this information from industry.

The Commission will also revisit our rules for assigning certain toll free numbers. Specifically, we are seeking comment on using an auction to distribute currently unassigned toll free numbers that multiple, competing parties have expressed an interest in. Auctions could represent a more efficient and effective means of distribution because catchy numbers (for example, 1–833-LAWYER) would be provided to those that value them the most. Moreover, the funds raised by these auctions would help offset the cost of administering the toll free number system. At the same time, the FCC will seek comment on setting aside some new toll free numbers for health and safety uses by government and non-profit organizations.

And finally, we will be voting on an item from the Commission’s Enforcement Bureau. For law enforcement reasons, we are unable to discuss it publicly before our September 26 meeting.

It’s been a busy month already at the FCC. And whether we are collaborating with our federal partners to respond to hurricanes or working to modernize our rules so that we maximize the benefits of communications technology for all Americans, we will continue to work the rest of this month and every month to advance the public interest.

https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/innovation-month-at-the-fcc-65325829ec8f

Tomorrow is Groundhog Day. Fittingly, I’m announcing an agenda for the Commission’s February meeting that revisits some familiar themes from the past year: modernizing outdated rules, closing the digital divide, and most significantly, promoting innovation.

Topping the agenda for Innovation Month will be a proposal to unleash new wireless services and technologies in frequencies above 95 GHz. Traditionally, these airwaves haven’t been viewed as well-suited for communications services. But recent advancements in propagation technology have changed the equation and expanded the boundary of usable spectrum. As a result, these very high-band frequencies are today’s spectrum horizons.

In 2016, the Commission sought public comment on new possible uses for spectrum above 95 GHz. American innovators responded with a wide array of suggestions, ranging from fixed wireless service to backhaul for 5G systems to Wi-Fi-like unlicensed applications to next-generation satellite services.

The time has come to let go of the reins with respect to these very high bands and start empowering U.S. innovators to test their ideas. That’s why I’ve circulated my Spectrum Horizons proposal to open up this spectrum and create a new testbed for technological progress. Specifically, I’m seeking input on whether to make available up to 102 gigahertz of spectrum for licensed use, two-thirds of which would be shared with satellite services. (Just to give you a sense of how much spectrum that is, most spectrum currently in use for common commercial services — everything from AM radio to Wi-Fi — takes up less than 6 gigahertz total, although we continue to push the bounds higher.) I’m also asking whether we should allocate 15.2 gigahertz of spectrum for unlicensed use in four different bands. Finally, in the spirit of “you don’t know until you try,” I’m proposing to add a new type of experimental license that would permit experimental use in any frequency from 95 GHz to 3 THz and would provide more flexibility for license holders. Now, I recognize that most of this spectrum is currently shared between federal government agencies and non-federal users, so this plan would continue close coordination with the executive branch. If this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is approved at our February meeting, I hope to get good public feedback on these ideas and then act quickly. If we broaden our nation’s spectrum horizons, we’ll keep the United States in the lead when it comes to technological innovation.

Unleashing spectrum is just one part of the Commission’s pro-innovation strategy. Another is streamlining the Commission’s processes. Entrepreneurs are constantly developing new technologies and services. But too often, they’re unable to bring them quickly to market for consumers because regulatory inertia stands in the way. Unfortunately, the FCC can suffer from this government-wide problem.

The FCC should facilitate, rather than frustrate, innovation. Accordingly, early in my Chairmanship, I declared that the Commission would adhere to Section 7 of the Communications Act. Section 7 instructs the Commission to respond to petitions or applications proposing new technologies and services within one year. The provision was established by Congress in 1983, but it’s long been ignored — in fact, the FCC has not established any guidelines or rules in 35 years and has never embraced the statutory mandate of section 7! At our February meeting, we’ll vote on a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that ultimately aims to codify Section 7’s commitment to prompt action in the Commission’s rules. Establishing clear guidelines and procedures for Section 7 implementation would ensure that new technologies and services are identified early in the process, and that the FCC takes timely action where approval of these new technologies or services would serve the public interest. Bottom line: government shouldn’t be a bottleneck for entrepreneurs looking to design a better mousetrap.

In addition to these pro-innovation proposals, the FCC is set to take another step forward in our work to close the digital divide. Last year, the Commission created a plan to invest $4.5 billion over the next 10 years to expand 4G LTE service to areas that don’t have it. The Commission then received petitions for reconsideration for certain aspects of that Mobility Fund II Report & Order. In three weeks, the Commission will vote on an item to resolve those aspects of the petitions that haven’t yet been addressed. Resolving these questions would move us closer to the start of the Mobility Fund II reverse auction, and eventually the end of dead spots in rural America where wireless coverage simply isn’t available.

Our February agenda is rounded out by three items that aim to remove outdated and unnecessary regulations. Two of these are products of the Commission’s Modernization of Media Regulation Initiative.

FCC rules require Commission staff to conduct a mid-term review of certain broadcast stations’ equal employment opportunity (EEO) practices around the midpoint of broadcasters’ eight-year license terms. To help facilitate such a review, the Commission currently requires these broadcast stations to submit a form providing certain information that, with one exception, is also available in stations’ online public files. But in the digital era, it doesn’t make much sense to require someone to file what you can already access online. I’m therefore asking my colleagues to consider eliminating this filing requirement, while simultaneously maintaining the mid-term review.

Next, as some may recall, the first rulemaking to come out of our initiative to modernize our media rules was a proposal to eliminate the rule requiring certain broadcast and cable entities to maintain paper copies of the Commission’s regulations. We received unanimous support for this proposal, given that this information is now available and easily accessible online (if you’re seeing a trend here — bing!). So today, I’m sharing an Order that would eliminate this outdated and unnecessary requirement.

Rounding out our February agenda will be a Report and Order to eliminate the annual audit and associated reporting requirement for payphone service providers. As fewer and fewer people use payphones, compliance with these rules now costs carriers a large fraction of, if not more than, the total compensation the audits are meant to verify (you read that correctly). This Order would also eliminate interim and intermediate per-payphone compensation rules that no longer apply to any entity.

* * *

In February, the Commission is yet again taking concrete action to unleash innovation, close the digital divide, and modernize our rules. And regardless of whether Punxsutawney Phil sees his shadow tomorrow, we’ll keep returning to these themes time and again so long as I have the privilege of leading this agency.

https://medium.com/@AjitPaiFCC/winning-the-wireless-future-e81f68fefd96

Earlier this week, I was in Barcelona for the mobile industry’s largest global showcase. The possibilities of our wireless future were on full display, with 5G — the next generation of wireless service — the hot topic. The race to 5G is a global one, with countries in Asia and Europe particularly keen to seize the advantage. In a speech, I made clear that I want the United States to win that race. I outlined the FCC’s strategy for 5G leadership and delivering next-generation wireless connectivity to American consumers using a three-part approach: forward-thinking spectrum policy, modernized rules for infrastructure deployment, and light-touch network regulation.

This week, we’re putting that strategy to work, rolling out multiple actions to advance this agenda.

On Monday in Barcelona, I announced my plan for the FCC to hold an auction starting this November of spectrum in the 28 GHz band. We’ll follow up immediately thereafter with an auction of spectrum in the 24 GHz band. This high-band spectrum will be critical to the rollout of 5G, because it will enable extremely fast connections with more capacity. There’s no telling how innovators might use this spectrum — it could be high-bandwidth applications like virtual reality and/or low-bandwidth ones like industrial Internet-of-Things monitoring — but experience teaches us that consumers ultimately will be big winners.

On Tuesday, we unveiled a map of the initial areas eligible for federal subsidies from the FCC’s Mobility Fund Phase II. As you might remember, last year, we rolled out a plan to devote up to $4.53 billion over the next decade to bring 4G LTE service to areas of the country that don’t yet have it. The new map begins the process of determining which specific areas those are. It’s an important step toward holding the MF II reverse auction, in which we’ll allocate that money.

And today, I’m unveiling a lineup for the FCC’s March 22 open meeting that builds on this momentum.

Headlining the meeting will be a vital part of our 5G strategy: modernizing our rules to promote the wireless infrastructure of the future. One thing we know about 5G wireless networks is that they’ll be infrastructure-intensive. Instead of a 200-foot cell tower, we’ll see hundreds of small cells, installed more inconspicuously, operating at lower power, and delivering much faster speeds. Some analysts project that 5G will involve a 100-fold increase in the number of small cells deployed in the United States. But there’s a snag: many of the FCC’s rules are still designed for cell towers. The hoops set up by these regulations are a mismatch for 5G infrastructure and are holding back the construction of next-generation networks.

That’s why I asked my colleague, Commissioner Brendan Carr, to lead the FCC’s effort to modernize our wireless infrastructure rules. Thanks to his efforts, we’ll be voting on an order at our March meeting that would do just that. Most importantly, it would find that the private sector’s deployment of certain small wireless facilities shouldn’t trigger federal historic preservation and environmental reviews. Red tape like this is not only unnecessary for small cells, but also increases the cost and slows down the deployment of wireless networks.

To circle back to the theme I opened with, it was clear in Barcelona that countries around the world are striving to lead the world in 5G. We’ve led the world in wireless for some time now, but it’s not a given that we’ll do so again. If the United States is going to be at the front of the pack in 5G, we need to have the right rules in place to expedite the deployment of 5G networks. All the 5G spectrum we free up won’t matter if the networks to carry wireless traffic don’t exist. And so, as Commissioner Carr has put it, we need to be 5G Ready. This makes the March 22 vote to update our wireless infrastructure rules very important.

One specific area where we are seeking to spur effective use of spectrum and leverage wireless technologies is the 4.9 GHz band. Way back in 2002, the FCC designated 50 MHz of contiguous spectrum in that band for public safety use. Unfortunately, this spectrum has never been used as much as had been hoped. So a few years ago, the FCC explored ways to stimulate expanded use of and investment in this band. Based on the feedback we received from the public safety community, we’ve developed new proposals to promote greater public safety use of the 4.9 GHz band and incentivize investment in new technologies. The FCC will be voting on these proposals at our March meeting.

We’ll also vote on a second public safety matter at our March meeting. This one tackles the important issue of “misrouted” 911 calls from wireless phones. Every 911 call center I visit these days — and I’ve visited many, in big cities and small towns — reports that a strong majority of the emergency calls they get come from wireless phones. Currently, wireless 911 calls are routed to 911 call centers based on the location of the tower that handles the call. But when calls are made near a county or city border, the nearest cell tower may be in a neighboring jurisdiction, so you end up with 911 calls being answered by emergency call-takers who have to transfer the call to first responders in another jurisdiction.

The scope of this problem became apparent to me during a recent visit to the Washington, DC Office of Unified Communications (OUC). There, Director Karima Holmes told me the OUC received about 10,000 misrouted 911 calls last year, which had to be transferred to Maryland authorities (and many thousands of calls received in Maryland were transferred into the District). Every second counts in an emergency, so these delays can have a huge impact. The good news is that technology now can help route calls to the correct call center without the need for a transfer. I’m therefore asking my fellow commissioners to join me in launching an inquiry to figure out how widespread a problem this is and how we can ensure that 911 calls are routed based on the location of the caller as opposed to the location of the cell tower that handles that call.

Overly restrictive regulations not only stifle the private sector; they also ultimately hurt consumers. That’s been the case with signal boosters, which are basically devices that improve wireless coverage by amplifying wireless signals. To be sure, the FCC’s 2013 rules authorizing the use of signal boosters have been a net positive for consumers by allowing them to get better coverage in areas where signals are weak, such as in their basement or on their commute through rural areas. But the current rules unnecessarily restrict these boosters to personal use, preventing small businesses and other organizations from taking advantage of these devices. Given credible evidence that boosters will not cause interference under existing safeguards, the FCC will vote on March 22 on eliminating the personal use restriction and allowing boosters to be used in business settings for the benefit of employees or the general public. In addition, the FCC will seek public input on ways to increase the availability of signal boosters. Proposals we’re considering include expanding the spectrum bands in which boosters may operate and making it easier to embed boosters in vehicles. Our goal is pretty simple: to give consumers who want better wireless coverage more options for getting it.

As we’re unleashing the benefits of communications technologies, we also want to minimize the downsides. And judging from consumers’ complaints to the FCC, the biggest frustration related to modern communications is unwanted robocalls. The Commission has engaged in an aggressive, multi-front battle against these constant irritants, and one of the fronts in this war is the issue of unwanted calls to reassigned numbers. When you disconnect your phone number and get a new one, you probably don’t notify everyone who has called you in the past, including businesses (like pharmacies or electric utilities) to whom you’ve given permission to call. So when your old phone number is reassigned to someone else, the new subscriber starts getting calls that were meant for you. This not only annoys the new number-holder, but can also subject the callers to liability. At this month’s open meeting, the FCC will vote on finding ways to tackle this reassigned numbers problem. Among other ideas, we’ll explore the creation of a single database that callers could use to check and see if phone numbers have been reassigned.

The last item on our March agenda will be the latest reform to come out of our media modernization initiative. When broadcast television entities come to the FCC hoping to assign or transfer a satellite station in the context of a transaction, that station’s status as a “satellite” must be reauthorized. Such reauthorization traditionally requires the broadcast entity to make the same rigorous showing that was required initially when the station was formally designated a satellite by the Commission. Some folks have argued that requiring the same evidentiary showing for a reauthorization request is unnecessarily costly and burdensome in many cases, both for the applicants and the Commission; everyone knows the duck still quacks like a duck, so to speak, so the current process is wasteful. In three weeks, we’ll vote on a proposal to streamline the process for reauthorizing satellite stations when they are assigned or transferred.

But returning to where I started, the main focus of our March meeting will be on wireless issues. Whether we’re ensuring that America can lead the world in 5G, allowing for more productive use of spectrum for public safety, or giving consumers better wireless coverage, our goal is to maximize the benefits of wireless technologies for the American people.