https://www.hhs.gov/about/leadership/secretary/op-eds/trump-wants-help-forgotten-people-hurt-obamacare.html

For all the discussion of Obamacare since its passage, it is too rarely known that the law effectively split the United States’ individual insurance market in two.

One group of Americans — about 8 million enrollees exit disclaimer icon in 2017 — now pay, on average, less than a quarter of the cost of their health insurance, receiving ever-growing taxpayer subsidies to insulate them from Obamacare’s high premiums. But there is a second group of Americans who have faced the full premium increases driven by the law’s broken regulations. Roughly 5 million exit disclaimer icon Americans, as of 2017, have chosen to pay those premiums without any subsidies, while another 28 million Americans remain uninsured exit disclaimer icon, many priced out of coverage entirely.

The law’s skyrocketing subsidies have kept subsidized insurance enrollment fairly steady — although more than 50 percent - PDF below what was once expected exit disclaimer icon. But Americans who make too much to receive subsidies have begun to opt out of the insurance market en masse. An independent analysis exit disclaimer icon found that the entire unsubsidized individual insurance market shrank by more than 40 percent from the first quarter of 2016 to the first quarter of 2018. In other words, Obamacare has forced unsubsidized Americans to choose between unaffordable insurance or no insurance at all.

This is unacceptable. It is one reason the Trump administration recently expanded an affordable insurance option the previous administration had all but discarded, providing new choices for these forgotten men and women.

Americans will once again be able to buy what is known as short-term, limited-duration insurance exit disclaimer icon for up to a year, assuming their state allows it. These plans are free from most Obamacare regulations, allowing them to cost between 50 and 80 percent less exit disclaimer icon.

Insurers will also be able to sell renewable plans, allowing consumers to stay on their affordable coverage for up to 36 months. Consumers can also buy separate renewability protection, which will allow them to lock in low rates in their renewable plans even if they get sick.

Unsurprisingly, experts believe there will be healthy demand for these affordable options. Up to 2 million Americans, and possibly more, are expected to enroll within the next few years.

Such plans were offered for terms of up to 12 months for decades until, in an effort to push Americans into Obamacare, the previous administration restricted the plans to 90 days and prohibited insurers from renewing them beyond that time period. This eliminated them as an option except for the shortest transitions between other sources of coverage.

But these short-term plans can be a good option for many Americans priced out of Obamacare’s regulations — especially small-business owners, independent contractors in today’s “gig economy” and younger Americans transitioning between school and employment.

The Trump administration has gone to significant lengths to ensure customers know that these plans are not subject to the same regulations as Obamacare plans and that they are not the right choice for everyone. In fact, we require more robust warnings about the limits of these plans than President Barack Obama’s administration did.

Some have raised concerns about the possibility that short-term plans will pull healthy consumers out of the Obamacare exchanges, driving up premiums. But estimates from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services actuary suggest any such premium increases would be minimal and would not affect subsidized consumers. This is in part because those without subsidies who were previously enrolled in Obamacare plans have already left those plans in droves because of premium hikes under the law. For these consumers, short-term plans can offer an affordable option. Our decision to allow renewability and separate premium protections could also allow consumers to hold onto their short-term coverage if they get sick, rather than going to the exchanges, which improves the exchange risk pools.

Fundamentally, this administration believes in more options, not fewer, for consumers. Expanding short-term insurance is just part of President Trump’s larger agenda to improve health-care choice and competition for Americans.

The president signed legislation that will end the individual mandate penalty starting in 2019. Repealing the mandate and expanding short-term plans mean that millions of middle-class Americans who couldn’t afford health insurance will now be able to do so. The Labor Department has also made it easier for small businesses and self-employed Americans to band together to purchase more affordable insurance through association health plans - PDF. And last year, the Trump administration took rapid, decisive action to help stabilize the Obamacare markets and end ways to game the system. We have also worked closely with states to develop solutions that can bring down premiums and expand choices.

Starting around two months from now, thanks to this president, insurers and states will have more freedom to offer consumers more options. Obamacare remains broken at its core, but this administration isn’t shutting out the law’s forgotten Americans. Instead, we’re finally giving them affordable choices.

https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/09/19/donald-trump-opioid-crisis-epidemic-addiction-nalaxone-heroine-column/1347574002/

Our comprehensive strategy for the opioid crisis, grounded in the best science and evidence we have, is starting to show results.

The scale of America’s opioid crisis can be daunting. The latest numbers show that more than 72,000 Americans died of a drug overdose in 2017, most of them involving opioids. The tragic statistics are a reminder of why President Trump has made combating the opioid crisis a top priority for his presidency.

But everywhere the crisis has struck, there are signs of hope and resilience. Earlier this year, I visited a clinic in Dayton, Ohio — one of the hardest hit communities in the country — that treats new mothers struggling with addiction and their infants born physically dependent on opioids.

We met a young mother who was just a few months into recovery from opioid addiction. One day, late in her pregnancy, she got in a car crash on her way to buy drugs from a dealer. The crash sent her to the hospital, where her baby was born — alive, but dependent on opioids. If she had not gone to the hospital that day, doctors said, her baby probably would not have lived. Today, she is working and able to share her story of recovery.

We are taking new steps to fight the epidemic.

Each life saved from addiction is an important victory. And while the epidemic still rages, we are now seeing signs of national progress.

Last week, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released its annual survey of Americans’ drug use and mental health. For the second year in a row, the number of Americans misusing legal or illegal opioids dropped. Even more encouraging, the number of Americans initiating heroin use dropped by around half from 2016 to 2017.

These are signs that dedicated efforts from the federal government on down to local governments, faith communities, families, and individuals are working. Since President Trump took office, we have seen a 264 percent increase in the prescribing of naloxone, and a 16 percent increase in the prescribing of one form of addiction treatment.

Now, HHS is taking a number of new, unprecedented steps to empower local communities in their fight. These are part of HHS’s comprehensive strategy for the crisis, which is grounded in the best science and evidence we have.

Thanks to new funding President Trump secured from Congress earlier this year, in just this week, HHS is disbursing more than $1 billion in grants to fight opioid addiction. This includes grants to support all 50 states’ efforts to provide addiction treatment, prevention, and recovery services; grants from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to improve data gathering and prevention; and grants to help community health centers in rural areas provide addiction treatment.

The grants that go to support treatment have new provisions added by the Trump administration to specifically promote the use of medication-assisted treatment, which doctors and scientists consider the gold standard for helping those with opioid addiction. As part of an effort to expand that kind of treatment as widely as possible, HHS also issued a message to healthcare providers across America to promote a little-known way they can prescribe medication-assisted treatment via telemedicine. Prescribing medication-assisted treatment requires a certification that many healthcare providers do not have, but telemedicine allows them to connect patients to other providers who already have the certification.

We are also working to constantly expand our knowledge of addiction. This week, the National Institutes of Health is announcing a multi-million dollar study to test an integrated strategy for reducing overdose deaths in communities highly affected by the opioid crisis, implementing the very best practices we have for treatment and prevention and rigorously assessing the results. NIH also continues work to expand our scientific understanding of pain and addiction, including the heartbreaking challenge I saw firsthand in Ohio, of infants born dependent on opioids.

Earlier this year, I joined President Trump in New Hampshire to announce his administration-wide opioid initiative, which involves both HHS efforts and the important work of federal and local law enforcement. He declared that “failure is not an option, and addiction is not our future.” Every day, the administration is working with people across America toward our shared goal: success in the war on addiction and a drug-free future.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/trump-wants-to-help-the-forgotten-people-hurt-by-obamacare-heres-how/2018/08/15/d4609aaa-9ff6-11e8-b562-1db4209bd992_story.html?utm_term=.e1f813a849f2

Obamacare forgot about you. But Trump didn’t.

For all the discussion of Obamacare since its passage, it is too rarely known that the law effectively split the United States’ individual insurance market in two .

One group of Americans — about 8 million enrollees in 2017 — now pay, on average, less than a quarter of the cost of their health insurance, receiving ever-growing taxpayer subsidies to insulate them from Obamacare’s high premiums. But there is a second group of Americans who have faced the full premium increases driven by the law’s broken regulations. Roughly 5 million Americans, as of 2017, have chosen to pay those premiums without any subsidies, while 28 million other Americans remain uninsured, many priced out of coverage entirely.

The law’s skyrocketing subsidies have kept subsidized insurance enrollment fairly steady — although more than 50 percent below what was once expected. But Americans who make too much to receive subsidies have begun to opt out of the insurance market en masse. An independent analysis found that the entire unsubsidized individual insurance market shrank by more than 40 percent from the first quarter of 2016 to the first quarter of 2018. In other words, Obamacare has forced unsubsidized Americans to choose between unaffordable insurance and no insurance at all.

This is unacceptable. It is one reason the Trump administration recently expanded an affordable insurance option the previous administration had all but discarded, providing new choices for these forgotten men and women.

Americans will once again be able to buy what is known as short-term, limited-duration insurance for up to a year, assuming their state allows it. These plans are free from most Obamacare regulations, allowing them to cost between 50 and 80 percent less.

Insurers will also be able to sell renewable plans, allowing consumers to stay on their affordable coverage for up to 36 months. Consumers can also buy separate renewability protection, which will allow them to lock in low rates in their renewable plans even if they get sick.

Unsurprisingly, experts believe there will be healthy demand for these affordable options. Up to 2 million Americans, and possibly more, are expected to enroll within the next few years.

Such plans were offered for terms of up to 12 months for decades until, in an effort to push Americans into Obamacare, the previous administration restricted the plans to 90 days and prohibited insurers from renewing them beyond that time period. This eliminated them as an option except for the shortest transitions between other sources of coverage.

But these short-term plans can be a good option for many Americans priced out of Obamacare’s regulations — especially small-business owners, independent contractors in today’s “gig economy” and younger Americans transitioning between school and employment.

The Trump administration has gone to significant lengths to ensure customers know that these plans are not subject to the same regulations as Obamacare plans and that they are not the right choice for everyone. In fact, we require more robust warnings about the limits of these plans than President Barack Obama’s administration did.

Some have raised concerns about the possibility that short-term plans will pull healthy consumers out of the Obamacare exchanges, driving up premiums. But estimates from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services actuary suggest any such premium increases would be minimal and would not affect subsidized consumers. This is, in part, because those without subsidies who were previously enrolled in Obamacare plans have already left those plans in droves because of premium hikes under the law. For these consumers, short-term plans can offer an affordable option. Our decision to allow renewability and separate premium protections could also allow consumers to hold on to their short-term coverage if they get sick, rather than going to the exchanges, which improves the exchange risk pools.

Fundamentally, this administration believes in more options, not fewer, for consumers. Expanding short-term insurance is just part of President Trump’s larger agenda to improve health-care choice and competition for Americans.

The president signed legislation that will end the individual mandate penalty starting in 2019. Repealing the mandate and expanding short-term plans mean that millions of middle-class Americans who couldn’t afford health insurance will now be able to do so. The Labor Department has also made it easier for small businesses and self-employed Americans to band together to purchase more affordable insurance through association health plans. And last year, the Trump administration took rapid, decisive action to help stabilize the Obamacare markets and end ways to game the system. We have also worked closely with states to develop solutions that can bring down premiums and expand choices.

Starting about two months from now, thanks to this president, insurers and states will have more freedom to offer consumers more options. Obamacare remains broken at its core, but this administration isn’t shutting out the law’s forgotten Americans. Instead, we’re finally giving them affordable choices.

https://nypost.com/2018/06/01/team-trump-offers-fresh-hope-to-the-terminally-ill/

Team Trump offers fresh hope to the terminally ill.

Thanks to private-sector innovation and public investment, medical innovation in America and across the globe is advancing more quickly than ever before. This progress, and the development of new treatments for deadly diseases, represents a tremendous opportunity to save lives.

But it does take significant time for new treatments to be developed. Patients who face long odds and terminal illnesses do not always have access to the latest drugs in clinical trials.

They don’t want to give up, but they don’t have years to wait for new drugs to receive FDA approval.

That is why President Trump is so committed to making sure these patients have the chance to try an experimental medicine if it shows promise for their condition.

At the Department of Health and Human Services, we are working to empower patients and their families to make informed decisions and, if they wish, to try a potential cure.

As of this month, we now have more opportunities to deliver on these goals. President Trump successfully fought for and signed a bill from Congress that will provide more access to promising new drugs.

Named after four activists and their families who fought for its passage, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2017 establishes a new pathway for access to unapproved, investigational treatments. These four Americans fought for the Right to Try because they didn’t want to give up.

Like many facing terminal illnesses, they wanted to be able to have as many choices and options available to them as possible — they were willing to risk the unknown if there was potential it could lead to a cure.

The Food and Drug Administration works to protect the interests of all patients and provide them with reliable information about the potential effects of treatments. But government rules should not stand in the way of potentially lifesaving therapies for those who do not have much time or any other options.

This administration believes in putting American patients first. That means giving them the power to make decisions over their own medical treatment, with the support and assistance of their doctors and families and the best medical information possible.

The new Right to Try law is a significant step in putting those principles into practice. It builds on extensive efforts already underway at the FDA to enable more patients with serious medical conditions to have access to promising treatment options.

For many years, the FDA has facilitated seriously ill patients’ access to investigational drugs, devices and biological products through a program known as “expanded access” or “compassionate use.” The FDA has authorized more than 99 percent of expanded access requests, sometimes in a matter of days or hours.

Recently, under Commissioner Scott Gottlieb, the FDA has taken new steps to further streamline this program.

Now, the Right to Try law will open up still more opportunities for patients who are diagnosed with a broad range of life-threatening diseases or conditions, who have exhausted all other approved treatment options and who cannot participate in clinical trials.

The medicines that will be available under Right to Try have already undergone a Phase I safety trial, but the benefits offered by these novel, and still unapproved, treatments are typically unclear.

This new law follows HHS’s practice of promoting access while protecting patients, and we look forward to implementing it.

Americans are blessed with a can-do spirit — we don’t give up, even in the face of a daunting challenge like a life-threatening illness.

Every patient in such circumstances deserves the Right to Try, and thanks to President Trump’s voice on this issue, more of them will have it.

https://www.hhs.gov/blog/2018/06/01/dont-forget-those-who-are-suffering-from-pain.html

Our nation faces a tremendous challenge in fighting an epidemic of opioid misuse. Many Americans have developed their addiction following treatment for a painful condition, and many are overdosing on prescription painkillers or illegal opioids like heroin and illicit fentanyl. In fact, it is estimated that between 60 and 75 percent of Americans who use heroin started with misusing prescription opioids.

Confronting this challenge from all angles is one of HHS’s top four priorities, and an area of significant focus for President Trump’s entire administration.

But as we combat the opioid crisis, we cannot forget that pain is a real problem. Severe pain—chronic or acute—affects a broad spectrum of our fellow Americans: our children, our parents, our spouses, our relatives or our neighbors. We must do a better job of securing for them safe, effective options for managing pain.

That is why, this week, HHS was honored to host the first meeting of the Pain Management Best Practices Inter-Agency Task Force, a critical component of the 2016 Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act - PDF (CARA). This important body is charged with reviewing current best practices, determining if there are any gaps in practice, and developing recommendations to improve pain management.

Through measures like establishing this Task Force, the President, Congress and HHS have recognized that we cannot solve the opioid crisis just by addressing its downstream effects. We have to attack the crisis at its root—by looking at the intersections of mental health, addiction and pain, and by better understanding how a lack of safe and effective pain management has led to the overprescribing of opioids.

The importance of this task is recognized by the Trump Administration-wide strategy for the crisis, as well as the HHS strategy for fighting the opioid epidemic, which includes advancing the practice of pain management as one of its five pillars.

For our fellow Americans trying to live and work with pain, this Task Force could be a transformational opportunity. It will be a venue for our government agencies, as well as outside stakeholders and experts, to cooperate and improve our work on pain management. The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health (OASH), within HHS, is taking the lead and overseeing this effort, in conjunction with the departments of Veterans Affairs and Defense.

The Task Force includes representatives of HHS agencies, the VA, Defense and the Office of National Drug Control Policy, as well as non-federal representatives with diverse expertise in pain management, advocacy, addiction, recovery, substance use disorders, mental health, minority health and more. Members also include patients, first responders, hospitals and groups with expertise in overdose reversal. The Task Force is chaired by Dr. Vanila Singh, chief medical officer of OASH.

The Task Force will be accepting public comment on all of its proposed recommendations—input that comes on top of the huge amount of feedback we have received and processed regarding pain policy so far.  It is our hope that the Task Force—and the public response to its future recommendations—will help us identify a path forward to effectively and substantially improve pain treatment in America.

Together, we can end our country’s crisis of opioid addiction, while building a better path forward for Americans living with pain.

https://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2018/04/11/preventing_the_next_global_health_disaster_112776.html

Each year in April, the World Health Organization celebrates World Health Day, an opportunity to raise awareness of global health issues. This year, it is also a chance to observe the centennial of the deadliest global health disaster of the 20th century—and the deadliest event of the century, period.

One hundred years ago, on March 11, 1918, at Camp Funston, Kansas, a U.S. Army cook by the name of Albert Gitchell fell ill as he and his fellow soldiers prepared to go to war in Europe. He thought he had a bad cold. Soon after, Corporal Lee Drake went to the infirmary showing the same symptoms. By that afternoon over a hundred others joined them, and eventually, this influenza virus would circle the globe.

Over the next two years, the 1918 influenza pandemic, also known as the Spanish flu, infected nearly a third of the global population, killing more than 50 million people worldwide. At the time, the United States and the world were ill-prepared to combat a pandemic. Influenza viruses had not yet been discovered, there were no vaccines to prevent infection and no medicines to treat it, and the field of public health was in its infancy.

Today, influenza pandemics remain one of our top infectious disease threats. We have a growing set of increasingly advanced tools to detect the emergence of a new strain of influenza virus domestically and abroad, but much work remains to be done.

When it comes to the threat of pandemic flu, as well as other infectious threats, preparedness cannot be confined within borders. The world must work together to focus on the prevention and mitigation of pandemics that pay no mind to borders, and focus the work of institutions like the World Health Organization (WHO) on that threat.

Our almost universally interconnected world makes it easier for serious illnesses to spread faster than ever before, and we saw this threat when the 2014 Ebola outbreaks that threatened to spread that illness throughout and beyond West Africa. That is why the Trump Administration strongly supports the Global Health Security Agenda to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease threats in collaboration with our partner countries.

The United States also supports reforms to WHO to ensure that future epidemics are handled more effectively than Ebola was. We are committed to investing in infectious disease preparedness at home and across the globe, including through the Global Health Security Agenda, and these tasks must be the focus of our global health work.

On flu, for instance, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in collaboration with WHO and the National Institutes of Health (NIH), has built global flu surveillance networks with partner countries that help to detect and respond to new and known influenza viruses. This network provides an early warning system to detect new flu strains and increases the likelihood that partner countries can effectively combat and contain the virus before it spreads to our shores.

As we work around the world, we are investing at home as well. When I was at HHS in 2005, for instance, we formulated the first Pandemic Influenza Plan, a comprehensive blueprint that outlined how federal, state, local, tribal and territorial partners would respond in the event of a flu pandemic. A few years later, the experience of the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic showed the value of those preparedness activities, but also revealed remaining gaps. At the time, we did not have the domestic capacity to manufacture enough influenza vaccines to protect the entire American population.

Since then, through HHS’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, we have worked with partners in the private sector to expand our ability to manufacture influenza vaccines domestically. Our manufacturing capacity has increased ten-fold since the 2000s, while we have worked to reduce the time it takes to develop a new flu vaccine in the event of a pandemic and invested in research toward a universal flu vaccine.

Our international work extends to many other disease outbreaks and threats. U.S. health agencies, including CDC, NIH, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), have helped lead the ongoing response to Zika throughout the Western Hemisphere. And just last year, HHS agencies helped the Democratic Republic of the Congo in responding to Ebola; the Republic of the Congo and Nigeria in responding to monkeypox; Zimbabwe in responding to typhoid fever; and Namibia in responding to anthrax. Right now, CDC, NIH, and FDA are assisting WHO and the government of Nigeria in responding to a Lassa fever outbreak.

The world has come a long way since 1918, but we are still vulnerable, not just to the flu but a range of infectious threats. The United States will continue to work with our partners around the globe to build preparedness for these threats and to strengthen our preparedness at home.

Infectious diseases remain a serious threat, but with the right level of cooperation and focus, we can look forward to marking many more World Health Days before we see another pandemic like the Spanish flu.

https://www.cnn.com/2018/02/23/opinions/short-term-health-insurance-opinion-azar/index.html

The 21st century is a golden age of personalization. Whether it's customizing our smart phones with our favorite apps or ordering exactly what we need when we need it from Amazon, we increasingly expect a unique customer experience, not a one-size-fits-all model.

So why shouldn't the same principle apply to buying health insurance?

Since Obamacare was enacted, affordable, individualized health care coverage choices have all but disappeared for many Americans. Individual market premiums increased 105% in states using healthcare.gov from the year before Obamacare kicked in through the final year of the Obama administration.

That's why President Trump has made it a priority to open up new options for health insurance for Americans, and issued an executive order to that effect in October. In particular, we need to be opening up more affordable alternatives to Affordable Care Act health insurance policies, which are becoming increasingly unaffordable for many.
In keeping with that direction, the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor, and Treasury released a proposal this week to extend the availability of a more affordable, more individualized form of insurance, called short-term limited duration health insurance plans.
Obamacare imposed an unprecedented level of regulation and standardization on individual-market health insurance all across America. This has left many consumers in an intolerable predicament -- in some cases, having to spend up to a third or even half of their income on premiums and deductibles before insurance kicks in. The cost of individual market health insurance has risen to such an extent that, increasingly, it only makes sense for those who are sick or may become sick soon.

Health coverage in the form of short-term limited duration plans has long been widely available to individuals in circumstances where they are unable to access traditional coverage, such as those between jobs or students taking a semester off from school. This type of coverage is in many cases relatively affordable, particularly today in comparison with the plans in the individual market, now having to abide by Obamacare regulations.

In late 2016, the Obama Administration severely curtailed access to these options by prohibiting anyone from purchasing short-term plans that last longer than three months. Under the Trump administration's new proposal, customers will be able to buy plans up to 12 months in duration.
This proposal, combined with the repeal of the individual mandate tax, could benefit millions of middle-class families who can't afford the premiums of Obamacare plans.
Short-term plans aren't for everyone. They don't satisfy some of the Obamacare mandates for insurance, such as requirements to cover certain health benefits.
But for Americans who have been priced out of Obamacare plans, who can't find a plan that will cover their doctor, or who are looking for affordable coverage between jobs, these short-term plans could make a lot of sense.

This isn't just about making sure individualized plans are available for Americans who need them. More broadly, this administration believes that a competitive, affordable insurance market is going to come about by allowing insurers to respond to consumers -- not by imposing edicts from Washington.
Expanding options for more affordable, individualized insurance is one of President Trump's key health care priorities, and one of our key priorities at Health and Human Services. This week's proposal represents a significant step toward that goal, and a new affordable health care option for Americans who need it.