https://www.concordmonitor.com/Reducing-opioid-misuse-by-injured-federal-workers-21243395

The opioid crisis felt across our nation has claimed too many communities, families and lives.

One year ago today, I participated in a meeting of the president’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis at the White House. President Donald Trump had just declared the national opioid epidemic a public health emergency, committing every inch of this administration to helping Americans impacted by opioid addiction. As part of this whole of government approach, the U.S. Department of Labor has pursued an aggressive strategy to prevent the over-prescribing of opioids for the approximately 200,000 federal employees who receive workers’ compensation benefits per year.

The results of the Department of Labor’s opioid reduction efforts are dramatic.

We compared 15 months of data for federal workers’ compensation claimants – January 2017 to March 2018 and the same time period in 2015 to 2016 – and saw a 22 percent drop in new opioid prescriptions, and a 43 percent decline in new opioid prescriptions lasting more than 30 days. Since President Trump took office in January 2017, we have also witnessed a significant drop in the number of claimants prescribed higher dosages of opioids. We have seen a 45 percent drop in claimants with a morphine-equivalent dose of 500 or more, and an 18 percent drop in users with a dose of 90 or more. A morphine-equivalent dose of 500 amounts to roughly 33 10-milligram tablets daily.

Opioid use is down, and referrals of suspected pharmaceutical fraud are up. In 2016, the department made only three referrals of suspected fraud to the Office of the Inspector General. We made 42 referrals in 2017, and 44 so far in 2018 – nearly 15 times more fraud referrals than the entire year of 2016.

The Department of Labor’s Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs is taking action, using data to drive policy. It has instituted targeted controls, tailored treatment, meaningful communications and diligent fraud detection among providers to reduce the number of new prescriptions for opioids, and the rate at which opioid users become extended users.

Education is important, and a key piece of the president’s Plan on Opioids. That is why we began sending letters to both injured workers and their medical providers about the dangers of opioid use and the potential for abuse. We focused on the root of the problem by writing to providers who were prescribing dangerously high dosages. We informed these providers that we were monitoring their prescribing practices, and later asked them for specific treatment plans focused on lowering dosage levels.

We also implemented a new requirement for determining medical necessity: Providers who want to prescribe opioids to injured federal workers for more than 60 days or prescribe compounded opioid medications must now demonstrate need. This requires providers to consider common-sense but critical questions: Have you advised the patient of the serious risks of opioids? Have you checked the patient’s prescription-drug history in your state’s prescription drug-monitoring database? Did you evaluate alternatives?

We also sent a letter to every worker who filled a new opioid prescription to notify him or her that medical justification would be required if opioids were used for more than 60 days. To address the most at-risk high-dose opioid users, the department adopted a one-on-one approach. We began in-depth case reviews of a worker’s specific medical condition, and assigned nurses to encourage patients and their providers to reduce opioid use, including by referring patients to addiction treatment.

To combat provider fraud, including in prescribing opioids, we assigned full-time staff who analyze large volumes of prescription data to detect problematic trends and identify providers with anomalous billing patterns. We also established new internal protocols so that agency inspectors general can more quickly and easily investigate suspicious providers.

Since January 2017, the Trump administration’s expansive efforts to identify, prevent and combat opioid misuse among injured federal workers receiving workers’ compensation benefits have generated effective and compassionate solutions. This administration is creating a positive model, which may be replicated around the nation to combat opioid misuse and abuse in the workplace.

Previously, the Department of Labor had taken minimal action to combat the opioid crisis. There were very few operational mechanisms to protect Americans against overprescribing. If a bill for an opioid prescription was submitted it was, almost always, paid. A few limited controls were in place, but none considered whether an opioid prescription was medically necessary, much less the duration and dose level of these dangerous drugs.

This administration’s actions, including ours at the Department of Labor, have resulted in fewer injured federal employees using prescription opioids. With patient-focused direct and frequent communication, general and tailored controls, and face-to-face help for individuals, we can continue to dramatically reduce opioid use.

The department’s approach and framework to combating opioid misuse among federal workers’ compensation claimants are outlined on a new Department of Labor microsite, published today.

In the coming months, we will continue to learn from our data, and further hone our methodology to cement a targeted, measurable, long-term strategy to prevent and address prescription opioid misuse among federal workers who have been injured on the job. That is good news for members of the federal workforce and all Americans.

https://www.miamiherald.com/opinion/op-ed/article217670435.html

On Labor Day, we celebrate the accomplishments of the American workforce, a record 156 million strong.


Working Americans and American job seekers have an economy that is creating family-sustaining jobs and the opportunities for a brighter future.


Our economy is best defined by one word: optimism. The National Federation of Independent Business’ Small Business Optimism Index is within 0.1 percent of the record set in the first term of President Reagan. The Manufacturers’ Outlook Survey from the National Association of Manufacturers reached an all-time high for “Percentage of Respondents Positive in Their Own Company’s Outlook.”


Working Americans have the highest level of job satisfaction since 2005, according to a survey issued by The Conference Board recently. The Conference Board also reported that consumer confidence is at the highest level since October 2000.

This optimism is not just perception, it is grounded on results delivered. In the second quarter of 2018, the American economy grew by 4.2 percent — which many once thought was out of our nation’s reach.

President Trump is squarely focused on creating jobs, more jobs, and even more jobs. Americans are seeing the results, with 3.9 million new jobs created since November 2016. This economy is bringing back the goods-producing industries of manufacturing, mining and logging, and construction.


During the past year, we have experienced the largest 12-month increase in manufacturing jobs in 23 years. Since President Trump’s election: Manufacturers have added 412,000 manufacturing jobs; after years of job losses, the mining and logging industry has 89,000 more jobs; and the construction industry has created 431,000 new construction jobs.


The unemployment rate this year reached a 17-year low, and it has held at or below 4 percent for four straight months. The prospects for Americans looking for work and those seeking to return to the labor force, have never been better. For the first time since the Department of Labor began tracking these statistics, job openings exceed the number of job seekers, with 6.7 million open jobs and 6.56 million Americans unemployed. One million prime-age workers have joined or rejoined the labor force since November 2016.


With all of this positive news, the president’s administration remains steadfast in its work to create even more opportunities for the American workforce.


President Trump has prioritized workforce development initiatives to equip Americans with the skills they need to fill and excel in good, family-sustaining jobs. Earlier this year, the President’s Task Force on Apprenticeship Expansion, which convened leaders from business, labor, educational institutions, trade and industry groups and public officials, submitted a report to the president outlining recommendations to expand apprenticeships across all industries.


In addition to the Task Force’s work, the Department of Labor announced $150 million in grants to expand apprenticeships in key industries, such as information technology and advanced manufacturing. This week, the Department of Labor launched Apprenticeship.gov, which provides career seekers a platform to search for apprenticeships by city, state, and occupation.


The administration’s approach to strengthening workforce development also includes the president’s “Pledge to America’s Workers” —a White House initiative that invites job creators to invest in the American workforce. The President’s call to action has received pledges from businesses, trade associations and labor, to provide work-based learning opportunities — apprenticeships, continuing education, on-the-job training, and reskilling programs — to help over 3.5 million American workers and students upskill and reskill to meet rapidly changing job demands.

This administration is working to deliver its ambitious agenda to help millions of Americans. According to a report by the American Action Forum, the Department of Labor has created $417 million in savings to taxpayers by rolling back unnecessary and excessive regulation. Association Health Plans have expanded opportunities for Americans working in small businesses to access quality, affordable healthcare. We are examining ways to expand retirement savings for small businesses and their employees. We are combating the opioid crisis with a workforce agenda to get people out of addiction and into jobs. We are working to help nonviolent offenders who have paid their debt to society successfully transition from prison to work so they do not fall back into crime.


We have already accomplished much for the American people — yet, we have much more to come in the years ahead.

https://www.newsobserver.com/opinion/op-ed/article217645215.html

President Trump has issued an executive order to strengthen retirement security in America. The order benefits small-business employees seeking easier ways to achieve greater retirement savings.

401(k) plans have proven a successful keystone of our nation’s retirement system. Saving at the workplace works. The 401(k) system is rooted in the private sector and conservative economic principles: simplicity, convenience, and optimism in American prosperity.

Virtually all workers at large employers have access to a low-cost, private retirement account. Last year, the Nobel Prize Committee in Economic Sciences recognized these plans have “substantially increased U.S. pension savings,” without impacting “other savings nor increas[ing] debt.” Furthering this tradition, President Trump’s tax cuts have allowed employers across the country to channel new savings into retirement-savings contributions for their employees.

Forty-two million Americans, about one-third of the private-sector workforce, work for small businesses with fewer than 100 employees. According to Bureau of Labor Statistics data, about half of small business employees do not have access to the same quality work-based retirement plans as workers at large employers. Other reports put this percentage substantially higher.

American small businesses create two out of every three new jobs nationally. With so many Americans working for small businesses, and too many without access to workplace retirement plans, these hardworking Americans will, at best, be ill-prepared for retirement or, at worst, suffer real hardship without adequate savings.

For small businesses, establishing and maintaining a 401(k) plan is often too onerous and costly. A different survey from Pew found that 71 percent of small and medium-sized businesses that do not offer retirement plans cited high costs as a reason. As a result, only 14 percent of small employers currently offer a retirement plan to help workers save for their future, according to the Government Accountability Office.

It is time that we close the retirement gap.

President Trump’s executive order directs his administration to identify policies that would assist small- and mid-sized businesses to sponsor workplace retirement plans by coming together as a group or association of employers. Such retirement plans would leverage economies of scale to give small-business employees access to the same quality 401(k) plans as workers at large companies. Features of these plans may include quality, diversified investment options and opt-out enrollment.

These plans could offer an efficient way to reduce paperwork and administration costs for small businesses. This means small-business owners could focus on running their businesses rather than running retirement plans — while still creating opportunity for their employees to prepare for a financially secure retirement.

In short, we must work to level the playing field for small businesses by breaking down the barriers that they face when sponsoring workplace retirement plans. Removing these constraints on small businesses is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, AARP, the financial-services industry, and members of both political parties.

At a time when President Trump’s tax cuts are returning more money to paychecks, small-business employees need simple and convenient access to workplace plans to save for retirement and to protect their financial health.

401(k) plans are a straightforward, proven vehicle used by millions of Americans working for large employers. If it works for them, it should work for the employees of small businesses, too. We must close the retirement gap today, so that small-business employees can retire in financial health tomorrow.

https://blog.dol.gov/2017/07/28/ada-27-strengthening-american-workforce

Wednesday marked the 27th anniversary of a milestone in our nation’s history − the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Signed by President George H.W. Bush, this landmark legislation prohibited employment discrimination on the basis of disability and helps to ensure all Americans have equal access to good, safe jobs.

As Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, I had the honor of working with the disability community and employers to create a work environment open to all. As Secretary of Labor, I have the privilege of continuing this work in many ways, one of which is by connecting job creators and job seekers. Employers know that workplace accessibility is not something that is done simply to comply with the law. Workplace accessibility provides a business advantage. It provides access to a talent pool that makes businesses stronger and more competitive. 

There are currently about 6 million open jobs in the U.S. It’s estimated that American companies are missing out on nearly $250 billion because of these unfilled jobs. Now is the time for businesses to realize the untapped potential of the more than 500,000 Americans with disabilities who are seeking jobs right now.

President Trump understands this. He is committed to helping Americans pursue their career of choice by making workplaces more accessible and workforce education more inclusive to those with disabilities. The President’s first budget proposal directs the Department of Labor to help states test strategies to enable recently disabled workers to stay in their current employment. Early intervention is key and will be a focus of the research and state demonstration projects.

The President also signed an Executive Order on apprenticeships to close the skills gap and ensure the American workforce is prepared to succeed in the jobs of today and tomorrow. The Department of Labor will work with industry groups, companies, unions, nonprofits and educational institutions to increase the number of quality apprenticeships in the U.S. Apprenticeships and workforce development programs such as these should and will be open to all Americans of all abilities.

A job is about more than just income. Work is a source of pride; it gives men and women the ability to provide for their families and make our local communities better places. The Department of Labor and the Office of Disability Employment Policy are committed to ensuring that more Americans with disabilities experience the independence, pride, and community that come with having a job.