https://www.law360.com/articles/862321/what-to-expect-from-trump-s-environmental-policies

Every four or eight years the United States goes through a presidential transition and with this year’s results, which bring in a new administration and new Congress, the change in government leadership will greatly impact environmental policy. We anticipate significant changes, challenges and opportunities for environmental policy as a result.

No single environmental issue will be impacted by the change in administration more than climate policy. President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan and the Paris accord under the United Nations Climate Convention are the highest profile and most likely targeted policies. The CPP is currently under review by the D.C. Circuit, but regardless of the legal outcome of the case the regulation is now destined to be revoked or completely rewritten. President-elect Donald Trump campaigned against both the CPP and the Paris accord throughout his campaign, providing the necessary mandate for action.

Regarding the CPP, he has several legal options. If the D.C. Circuit remands the CPP back to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, in whole or part, he can use that opportunity to significantly change the regulation. He can also immediately order the revocation of the rule through the regular notice and comment rulemaking procedures before the circuit court issues its decision. Whatever his course of action, it's important to note that he has the backing of 29 states, which will bolster the legal justification for a revocation.

The Paris accord will be easier to overturn. While the rest of the world views the accord as a treaty, the Obama administration went to great lengths (and questionable legal authority) to call the accord a “nonbinding agreement” and it was implemented by Obama by executive order. It can therefore be reversed by executive order. President-elect Trump could also submit the accord to the Senate for ratification where it will likely meet the same fate as the Kyoto Treaty: to die in limbo. The reversal of the Paris accord also strengthens President-elect Trump's hand on the CPP since the Obama administration has used the accord to justify the carbon dioxide reductions in the CPP. While the legal instruments within the accord require a four-year process for individual country withdrawal, there are no binding legal penalties for inaction and the withdrawal repercussions will be diplomatic, not legal.

Along with the CPP and Paris accord, the Trump administration will likely pull back from the new methane requirements by the EPA, the Social Cost of Carbon policy and climate reviews now embedded into the National Environmental Policy Act process, and the rest of the priorities in Obama’s climate action plan.

The next most endangered Obama regulation would be the Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS), which is currently stayed by the Sixth Circuit and sets out the regulatory process of defining and permitting wetlands through the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers. Recent revelations regarding the disconnect and difference of opinions between the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers on the drafting of the regulation could help justify the withdrawal of the regulation, or the Trump administration could simply decline to defend the regulation and formally revoke the rule. Wetlands policy has for years been framed by regulatory attempts by administrations and U.S. Supreme Court decisions. Absent a statutory definition to clarify navigable waters, this issue will continue to be redefined by rulemaking attempts and judicial decisions.

In addition to wetlands policy, water infrastructure will remain a priority for both Congress and the new administration. Congress is attempting to deal with the fallout from the Flint, Michigan, lead issue through language incorporated into the Water Resources Development Act slated for action during the lame duck session. If the legislation fails to move over the next two months, expect action on the popular bipartisan issue early next year. Additionally, President-elect Trump ran on investing new resources in infrastructure ($750 billion over 10 years). This new infrastructure investment includes additional funding for drinking water and wastewater facilities.


Earlier this year, the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act passed Congress with broad bipartisan support and was signed into law by Obama. This was the first major rewrite of the Toxic Substances Control Act since the law was originally passed in the 1970s. The next two to three years will be pivotal as the EPA makes major implementation decisions regarding the new law. The EPA is currently working on rulemaking efforts to establish the EPA’s process and criteria for identifying high-priority chemicals for risk evaluation and low-priority chemicals, as well as the risk evaluation process rule. The new Trump administration will play a large role in crafting how this new law is interpreted.

Additionally, changes in the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee place Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyo., as chairman and Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., as the highest-ranking Democrat. Both were early supporters of the chemical law rewrite, and Carper replaces retiring Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., who opposed the law right up until its final passage. Sens. Barrasso and Carper are expected to closely follow the implementation of the new law by the EPA through the committee oversight process.


In addition to the changes in the Senate Environment & Public Works Committee noted above, the House Energy and Commerce Committee will also have new Republican leadership; either Congressman John Shimkus, R-Ill., or Greg Walden, R-Ore., is expected to assume the committee chairmanship in House elections later this month. The important House Energy and Power Subcommittee is also expected to have a new chairman next year, with either interim Chair Pete Olson, R-Texas, to retain the position since he assumed the duties from early retiring Chairman Ed Whitfield, R-Ky., or a new subcommittee chair to be selected later this year.

While much of the Trump administration’s environmental policies will be framed by his political appointees, it is important to remember that he did not shy away from taking positions on the major environmental issues during the campaign and his appointees will be expected to follow his direction.

https://www.faegrebd.com/files/125872_A_Bipartisan_Bill_On_Energy_Policy.pdf

The U.S. Department of Energy released its Quadrennial Energy
Review on April 21, 2015, which includes a series of
recommendations to upgrade the country’s aging energy
infrastructure (from our natural gas infrastructure to rail and fleets),
continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve the electric
grid’s reliability and revisit the country’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve
policies, among other issues.
The report, which has been underway since early 2014, is the Obama
administration’s attempt at setting the stage for future years. It
includes the following sections;

Increasing the Resilience, Reliability, Safety and Asset
Security of Transmission, Storage and Distribution (TS&D)
Infrastructure: covers the electric grid, natural gas
infrastructure as well as liquid fuel infrastructure.
Modernizing the Electric Grid: examines how the grid can provide affordable and reliable clean
energy.
Modernizing U.S. Energy Security Infrastructures in a Changing Global Marketplace: analyzes the
future role of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, delivery of propane and alternative fuels and the
U.S. shipbuilding industry for marine transport.
Improving Shared Transport Infrastructures: reviews existing transportation assets including
railroads, highways, waterways, ports and intermodal facilities.

Integrating North American Energy Markets: examines several energy markets, including North
American, the Caribbean and Artic regions.
Addressing Environmental Aspects of TS&D Infrastructure: considers the environmental impacts
of transmission, storage and distribution.
Enhancing Employment and Workforce Training: provides an overview of existing and projected
employment in the energy sector.
Siting and Permitting of TS&D Infrastructure: focused on addressing issues related to siting and
permitting of transmission, storage and distribution.
Analytical and Stakeholder Process: provides an overview of the analyses and outreach used to
complete the report.
Many of the issues addressed in the report cross multiple agencies and impact state authorities. The
Obama administration hopes the QER will help initiate these important discussions with relevant
stakeholders. In total, the QER calls for more than $15 billion in new spending programs or tax credits to
support the infrastructure initiatives in the recommendations.
The release of the report is timely as activity is ratcheting up in the House of Representatives and
Senate. Both bodies have begun to schedule hearings at their respective energy committees and the
first major energy bill in almost a decade will be seriously considered. The Obama administration’s nod
toward improving energy infrastructure is sure to draw some support across party lines, however other
recommendations, such as those focused on improving methane emissions reporting in natural gas
development, will face a difficult time given the Republican majorities in Congress and concerns from
industry. America's Natural Gas Alliance offered support for the QER for its emphasis on jobs and safety,
while disagreeing on the need for a mandatory methane emissions program, preferring cooperative
efforts with industry instead.
Congress also must pass an extension to the Surface Transportation Act, which could become a vehicle
for some of the recommendations outlined in the report. Transportation infrastructure is a major
component of the QER with new investments called for highways, rail and the waterway systems. The
report highlighted the growing number of crude oil rail accidents and the need to address the issue.
The Senate wasted no time holding a hearing on the report one week later, on April 28, 2015, in the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. During the course of the hearing, chairwoman Lisa
Murkowski, R-Alaska, both praised the release of the report, calling it a "template" to move the energy
debate forward, but was also critical of the over emphasis on federal spending and not enough attention
to solving our infrastructure needs, such as oil exports and the keystone pipeline. Ranking member 
Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., expressed her optimism that the report could be used to help move a
bipartisan energy bill.
The House of Representatives, which is further along in drafting an energy infrastructure bill, also
praised the release of the report. Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-Mich., and
subcommittee chairman Ed Whitfield, R-Ky., released a joint statement saying, "While we share our
differences with this administration regarding energy policy, when it comes to the transmission, storage,
and distribution of our resources, we can all agree that targeted changes to our laws and policies are
necessary." Of course, the devil is in the details and it remains to be seen whether the Obama
administration and Congress can agree on those details.
Environmental groups friendly to the Obama administration seized on the report's findings regarding
grid modernization and investments in clean energy as the path forward to combating climate
change. Natural Resources Defense Council President Rhea Suh stated, "A smart 21st century power
infrastructure, combined with the increasing deployment of energy efficiency and renewable sources of
energy, will ensure America's continued economic prosperity and competitiveness while protecting our
health and the health of our planet by reducing carbon pollution."
The report was generally praised by the energy industry for its calls for investment in infrastructure
spending and its focus on the problems facing industry today. Although some in the industry faulted the
call for more regulations such as mandatory methane programs, others mentioned the obstacles
created for the energy sector by the regulatory programs at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Most also took the opportunity to tout their own private sector initiatives, such as private sector
investments in pipeline upgrades.
As we approach the summer driving season, both Congress and the executive branch have energy
legislation on their radar and will be ramping up their rhetoric. This report is important for anyone in the
energy industry (utilities, oil and gas companies, renewables, coal, nuclear, storage and power markets);
for the supporting industries such as rail, barge and equipment companies; and for energy intensive
manufacturers.

https://www.faegrebd.com/files/107422_Keystone_XL_Will_Shape_Energy_Debate_For_114th_Congress.pdf

On Jan. 29, 2015, the U.S. Senate passed the Keystone XL Pipeline
Approval Act by a vote of 62-36, with all Republicans and eight
Democrats voting for the legislation. While President Obama pledged
weeks ago to veto the legislation, the debate over it — and
particularly over the nearly 250 amendments that were attached to it
— foreshadows many of the energy and environmental policy issues
that will occupy Congress’ attention over the next two years.
Below is a summary of key themes that arose throughout the
Keystone XL Pipeline debate, as well as analysis of how these issues
will influence the debate over energy and environmental policy in the
114th Congress.

A number of climate change amendments were offered and several
were voted on, although most were “Sense of the Senate” or “Sense
of Congress” amendments that did not offer specific actionable
measures and were therefore symbolic. The only climate-related amendment to the bill that was adopted
was one stating that climate change “is real and is not a hoax.” It received near-unanimous support in the
Senate, but it did not take a position on anthropogenic climate change. Democrats will continue looking
for opportunities to put Republicans on the record denying anthropogenic climate change, particularly as
the 2016 elections approach. Democratic amendments seeking to establish a link between the proposed
pipeline and climate change were also not adopted, but opponents of the pipeline will continue to
pressure the Obama administration to veto the pipeline due to concerns about emissions of additional
greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
Republicans mostly limited their attempts to use the legislation as a mechanism for attacking President
Obama's environmental regulations impacting the fossil fuel sectors. However, Republicans are not going
to hold their fire forever, and their willingness to avoid some of the most contentious environmental
issues likely resulted from their confidence that they will have additional opportunities to attack the
president’s environmental agenda on other bills in 2015 and 2016.
Stakeholders in particular should expect debate over the president’s proposal to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions from coal-fired power plants, the Obama administration’s plan for reducing methane emissions 

from the coal, oil and natural gas sectors and president's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on
the international stage through the U.N., World Bank and other multilateral institutions.
The Keystone XL Pipeline legislation provided further evidence that energy efficiency can attract
significant bipartisan support in Congress. For example, the only binding, actionable amendment adopted
by the Senate was a modified version of a comprehensive energy efficiency bill. The language would
promote reduced energy consumption in commercial buildings, exempt certain classes of water heaters
from forthcoming U.S. Department of Energy regulations and require additional energy efficiency tracking
and data disclosure from certain classes of federally leased buildings. That language, as well as a broader
energy efficiency bill, had been pending in Congress for over a year with substantial support. Aware of
increased public skepticism over partisanship and gridlock in Congress, both parties have used the
legislation to demonstrate bipartisan credentials in an otherwise gridlocked Senate. As the 2016 elections
approach, members of Congress — particularly vulnerable Republicans in Democratic-leaning states —
will point to the legislation as an example of how they can work with Democrats on substantive policy
issues.
While the Keystone XL legislation was ostensibly about imports of Canadian oil sands, the number and
variety of amendments dealing with energy exports spoke to Congress' interest in the energy paradigm
shift currently underway in the U.S. as we continue growing as a major energy exporter. While various
amendments to limit the export of the Canadian oil sands until certain conditions are met were
considered and defeated, two amendments dealing with the export of liqeuified natural gas and crude oil
attracted more attention.
The LNG amendment, which would require the DOE to automatically approve all applications to export
LNG to World Trade Organization countries, failed by a vote of 53-45. Another amendment, to lift the
near-prohibitions on exporting crude oil from the U.S., was pulled from the floor and not voted on. Yet
the outcome on both amendments should not lead one to conclude that these matters lack support. To
the contrary, there is considerable bipartisan support in Congress for expediting the consideration and
approval of LNG exports, as well as for promoting those exports as key tools in job creation and
international diplomacy. While crude oil exports are on a different political and regulatory trajectory from
LNG exports, momentum is building from certain constituencies to support lifting the ban. Neither of
these issues is going away, and they will continue to be raised throughout the 114th Congress. Crude oil
exports in particular will command additional attention as the presidential election season gets underway.
Every energy bill on the Senate floor over the last two decades has attracted a number of environmental
issues and amendments, and the Keystone XL legislation was no exception. There is a pent-up frustration
among mostly Republican members regarding environmental issues that will almost certainly reappear on
other energy measures or during the appropriations process. Likewise, a number of Democratic members
sought to underscore their agreement with the Obama administration on environmental issues and also
show where they are frustrated by either a lack of movement or a policy disagreement. Many of the
amendments and issues raised centered on home state, parochial issues that have generated significant
local attention in some states. For example, one amendment would have subjected the practice of
hydraulic fracturing to the jurisdiction of the Safe Drinking Water Act. This issue also reflects a broader 
national issue, where the practice of fracking has punctuated the gulf between proponents of expanded
supplies and economic development and environmental and public health advocates. This debate has
taken place in dozens of states and municipalities, and will be brought up again and again by members of
Congress as a reflection of a heated, ongoing debate taking place in so many jurisdictions across the
country.
Other members, particularly in the West and Midwest, forced votes on environmental policies that have
long generated controversy in their states. One amendment sought to return to “multiple use” status for
certain federal lands that have long been treated by the government as wilderness, but which were never
designated as such by Congress. (The Wilderness Act of 1964 explicitly leaves the designation of federal
wilderness to Congress, but some subsequent laws have provided the executive branch with the authority
to unilaterally designate lands with very similar protections.)
Another amendment would have prohibited the lesser prairie chicken from being protected under the
Endangered Species Act, and yet another would have expedited processes for reviewing and approving
drilling permits for oil and gas on federal lands. All of the amendments were defeated, but each of them
carries considerable importance in the impacted states, and their congressional supporters will continue
raising them to both criticize the Obama administration and promote their state’s interests as presidential
candidates make the rounds in advance of the 2016 elections.
While only one actionable amendment to the Keystone XL Pipeline legislation was approved, many of the
issues that were raised during the bill’s consideration will command Congress' attention in 2015 and 2016.
Assuming President Obama vetoes the legislation as expected, the fate of the pipeline will remain up in
the air and Congress will continue to push for its approval. Climate change — and particularly the
president’s policies to mitigate it — will be a key oversight topic for House and Senate Republicans.
Democrats in both chambers will continue to raise the issue of anthropogenic climate change, especially
the degree to which humans influence it, as we get closer to the 2016 elections.
At the same time, Republicans will continue to oppose the president’s environmental regulatory policies
on issues ranging from air quality to endangered species, mainly due to the threats those policies may
pose to jobs and local economies. Stakeholders should closely monitor developments with these and
other key energy and environmental policy issues over the next several months, as many of them will
come up and be vigorously debated for the remainder of the 114th Congress.

https://www.faegrebd.com/webfiles/As%20Climate%20Changes%20So%20Does%20Focus%20On%20Methane%20Emissions.pdf

While carbon dioxide emissions have garnered most of the attention
in recent months due to the new U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency utility regulations, the Obama administration has also turned
its focus to emissions of another greenhouse gas: methane. In March,
the administration released a 15-page interagency guidance
document that laid out preliminary steps for reducing methane
emissions. According to the document, methane currently accounts
for approximately 9 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S.
and is 20 times more potent as a greenhouse gas than carbon
dioxide.
In the U.S., emissions of methane come from the following sectors:
agriculture (36 percent); natural gas systems (23 percent); landfills
(18 percent); coal mining (10 percent); petroleum systems (6
percent); and wastewater treatment systems (2 percent). This
update focuses specifically on methane emissions from natural gas
systems, but stakeholders from each of the above-referenced
industries should closely monitor actions taken on methane in the
coming months. The administration is already undertaking action to reduce methane emissions across
multiple sectors and industries, which could impact regulatory compliance decisions to avoid
enforcement action by federal regulators.
The administration’s guidance document follows months of pressure from the environmental
community on both the business community and EPA to address the leakage of methane from the oil
and gas industry. For example, in 2012, the Natural Resources Defense Councilissued a report, “Leaking
Profits,” which outlined a number of steps the oil and gas industry could take to reduce methane
emissions while, according to the NRDC, saving the industry money.
Because the greenhouse gas potency for methane is greater than carbon dioxide there is a growing
concern that the switch from coal to natural gas doesn’t result in a greater climate impact. According to
the NRDC, if the leakage rate from natural gas infrastructure is below 3 percent then a natural gas fired
power plant performs better than a coal-fired plant in terms of its greenhouse gas equivalency.
However, if the leakage from the natural gas infrastructure exceeds 7 to 8 percent then there is no
discernable benefit over a coal-fired power plant.

The administration convened a series of roundtables, led by Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz, to discuss
ways to reduce methane emissions from the natural gas sector. After the fifth roundtable Secretary
Moniz identified a number of benefits from methane reductions, including “job creation through
pipeline and other equipment replacement, cost recovery for infrastructure investments that increase
safety and save energy and opportunities for addressing climate change by reducing greenhouse gas
emissions.”
In April, the EPA began reviewing several technical white papers looking at methane emissions from the
oil and natural gas sectors and potential mitigation options. The EPA first reviewed the available data on
emissions from five subsectors, assessed the current technologies and practices that can be used to
reduce emissions and, finally, set out a series of “charge” questions to guide interested stakeholders in
their responses. While not a formal regulatory proceeding, the agency did request stakeholder input on
their nonregulatory docket.
In July, EPA Inspector General Arthur Elkins Jr. released a report claiming his agency had done an
insufficient job of reducing methane emissions from natural gas pipelines. The report went on to say
that voluntary programs at the EPA have not done much to reduce emissions, and argued that the
agency should collect new data on the issue. The report also recommended that the EPA work with the
U.S. Pipeline & Hazardous Materials Safety Administration to address the issue, particularly from the
natural gas local distribution companies. An interesting note in the report is an estimate by Elkins that in
2011, more than $192 million worth of natural gas was lost due to leaks in pipelines.
In late July, the U.S. Department of Energy announced several steps to prevent methane leaks from
natural gas transmission and distribution systems based on their roundtables. For example, they are
beginning the process of establishing energy efficiency standards for new natural gas compressor units,
which according to their estimates consume more than 7 percent of natural gas. Second, they
announced a new industry collaboration that will evaluate and establish a high-impact manufacturing
research and development initiative to improve natural gas system efficiency and leak reduction. Third,
they advised the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to examine methods by which industry can
achieve enhanced cost recovery, in order to modernize transmission infrastructure. Finally, they have
joined the National Association of State Regulatory Utility Commissioners in a partnership to encourage
investments for infrastructure modernization and repairs to the natural gas distribution networks. As
part of this partnership DOE will provide grant funding and technical assistance to help the state utility
commissioners for reducing methane emissions from the transmission and distribution systems.

The Independent Petroleum Association of America responded to the EPA white papers on behalf of
industry. While the white papers provided technical comments and answers to the “charge” questions,
the IPAA criticized the timing of the process, stating the “truncated process implemented by the EPA
and administration is unlikely to lead to sound policy decisions.” The IPAA also pointed out that
“increased natural gas electricity generation is the primary reason the U.S. has reduced greenhouse gas
emissions more significantly than any other industrialized country. Making natural gas development
more expensive by expanding federal regulation could decrease that climate change success over time,
as decreased supply drives prices that result in less natural gas power generation.” The IPAA also
pointed out that industry has voluntarily reduced methane emissions by 40 percent between 2006 and
2012, without a federal mandate.
The Environmental Defense Fund, which early on praised the administration's process, also participated
as a technical reviewer of the EPA's white papers. After their release the EDF applauded the “EPA's
rigorous analysis through the white paper process [which] illustrates that methane leaks from oil and
gas equipment and facilities are a problem, but one that sensible and cost-effective policy measures can
help us overcome.” They also stated that the “EPA has the strong foundation to move forward on direct
regulation of methane emissions from the oil and gas sector to protect our climate and public health.”

This fall, after evaluating the technical white papers, the EPA will determine if regulatory action is
necessary to reduce emissions. The EPA could utilize Sections 111 and 182 of the Clean Air Act, among
other provisions of law. The EPA could set standards under Section 111 or 182, or the agency could issue
control techniques guidelines. The EPA was also tasked with expanding their voluntary natural gas STAR
Program to encourage more industry collaboration. The EPA was specifically charged to finalize any
necessary regulatory actions by the end of 2016.
In addition to those regulatory actions contemplated by the EPA thus far, it is important to note that the
agency is currently undertaking the ozone standard review under Section 109 of the CAA. While the EPA
has not identified this particular rulemaking to address methane releases, the interagency white paper
noted the role that methane plays in ozone formation. Methane is a precursor to ozone and tightening
the ozone standard may encourage states to address methane production through their state
implementation plans to assist in compliance.
In January 2015, the DOE will release its first installment of the Quadrennial Energy Review, which will
identify abatement opportunities to reduce methane emissions from natural gas processing,
transmission, storage and distribution. The department is charged to help identify the most costeffective
options working with the national labs, EPA, nongovernmental organizations and industry.
The EPA continues to build upon the data in the U.S. Greenhouse Gas Inventory through the
Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program. In March 2014, the EPA proposed revisions to GHGRP calculation
methods, monitoring and data reporting requirements that would enhance the quality of the reported
data from petroleum and natural gas systems, such as for liquids unloading, completions and
workovers and compressors. In addition, they have already announced plans in 2015 to make further
improvements to the GHGRP regulatory requirements for petroleum and natural gas systems.
President Obama has placed a major focus on his Climate Action Plan to reduce the causes and impacts
of climate change. The president's environmental legacy, in part, depends on completing many action
items related to climate change before the end of 2016. Given methane's potency as a greenhouse gas,
and the fact that the administration has focused almost entirely on carbon dioxide up to this point,
stakeholders should be prepared for the administration to move forward aggressively and quickly on
methane emissions from the natural gas sector in the coming months.


https://www.faegrebd.com/files/125967_68483_PURPA_Changes_Could_Shake_Up_Clean_Energy_Market.pdf

For a law originally passed in response to the energy crisis of the 1970s, the Public
Utility Regulatory Policies Act has received a lot of recent attention from Congress
and advocates for both investor-owned utilities (IOUs), and the renewable energy
industry. The renewed interest in the law may result in action by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission.

PURPA was passed in 1978 as part of the National Energy Act with the goal of
encouraging energy conservation and increasing supply of domestic energy
development and renewable resources. While the importance of the law has
ebbed and flowed since its initial passage, recent market developments have
brought it back into prominence as utilities and regulators seek to stabilize the
national electric grid with an increasing number of nonutility producers coming
online.
The law created a new class of power producers, referred to as qualifying facilities
(QFs), which receive special rate and regulatory treatment. QFs include renewable
generation utilities — such as hydro, solar, wind and other facilities producing less
than 80 megawatts (MW) of power — and cogeneration facilities installed at
manufacturing sites, refineries, paper mills and other industrial facilities that utilize
excess heat and steam to generate electricity. Historically, the primary QFs were
cogeneration operations, but in recent years solar and wind farms have become the predominant class
of QFs.
Under PURPA, IOUs are required to purchase all excess power produced at QFs. Congress modified
PURPA through the 2005 Energy Bill to reduce the size requirement of such projects to 20-MW facilities
in areas serviced by competitive power markets and where grid access is open. But the IOUs complain
that solar farms and other renewables are taking advantage of the law by building 20-MW farms one
mile apart to skirt the new project size requirements, and that these technologies are mature enough to
stand alone as power sources without the PURPA incentive.

The energy market has again transformed over the past decade, and increased incentives to produce
additional sources of renewable energy, combined with continued reduction in production prices of 

utility-scale power, has utilities feeling the pressure that these smaller sources put on their ability to
reliably operate the grids. In a November 2015 letter, Republicans in Congress asked FERC to examine
how the grid is affected by the addition of small producers and whether the one-mile rule has been
subject to abuse, leading FERC to call for a technical conference.
A subsequent letter from Congressional Democrats in February 2016 attempted to push FERC in the
other direction, insisting that the current system is adequate and necessary to continue incentivizing
development in renewable energy, and encouraged the commission to take no action. In response, FERC
Chairman Norman Bay announced the commission would seek input from both sides in a technical
review to learn more about the subject.
On June 29, 2016, FERC heard input from utilities, grid operators, small power producers and
cogenerators to determine if the current regime works under contemporary market structures. Utilities
spoke of the need to overhaul PURPA due to the unsustainably high prices they are obligated to pay
renewables developers. They argue that payment above market prices in a competitive electricity
marketplace give an unfair advantage and do not adequately cover the IOU’s costs for maintaining the
grid. Developers insisted that these purchase obligations provide the certainty needed to refund the
invested cost of building these small solar and wind facilities.
Additionally, FERC heard testimony regarding small producers “gaming the system” by deliberately
staying under the 20-MW threshold at a particular site while building strings of 20-MW installations far
enough apart to be considered separate entities — effectively creating utility-scale projects that are not
regulated as utilities. The review also considered the role of tax incentives and renewable portfolio
standards (RPS). While the traditional cogenerators who turn excess heat and steam into usable power
shared their input, it was clear that utilities are not concerned with the arrangement currently in place
with these facilities; however, a new wave of cogenerators is coming online as tech companies build
massive solar and wind arrays to power their energy-hungry server warehouses, and increasingly show
interest in building excess capacity to share with the grid.
Lastly, FERC heard from regulated market grid operators, who still maintain the 80-MW threshold from
the original PURPA, and how they can remain stable while contending with larger QFs, as well as
operators in deregulated markets who share a border with, and therefore import energy from, the
larger facilities in nearby regulated spaces.

While the technical conference had no direct conclusion, it served as an important first step for FERC as
they develop a plan to modify PURPA in the public’s best interest. FERC has five different policy options
that it can use to move this issue forward, and it is expected to do something before the end of this
year:
They can officially ask for more information from affected parties without signaling their longterm
intentions;
They can issue a policy statement that signals their intentions to mold the future uses of the
provision;
They can utilize a pending matter — there are 16 matters before the FERC that touch on these
issues — as a means to signal what they would like to see occur;
They can enter into a formal rulemaking to redefine the program by regulation; or
They can choose to do nothing.
Whatever FERC decides to do, it will have implications on the IOUs, renewable energy producers and
advocates, cogeneration facilities such as chemical plants and other manufacturers, and — ultimately —
the consumers. It is clear that electricity markets have again transformed themselves as new technology
and new players have entered the field. The market for electricity is expanding along multiple lines that
affect the grid in different, and sometimes opposing ways, making the overall picture of our energy
landscape more complex than ever.
Traditional centrally based generation is increasingly at competitive odds with distributed forms of
production, and FERC and Congress will need to navigate carefully to balance the needs of reliably
providing electricity while allowing for new innovation to proliferate.

