https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2018/apr/22/unlocking-americas-full-potential-requires-a-refor/

Thanks to tax reform, deregulation and America’s can-do spirit, our economy is strong. Unemployment is at its lowest level since 2000, wages are rising, and businesses are bringing jobs back to the United States. Despite these tremendous economic gains, we have yet to unlock America’s full potential.

While America is now experiencing record low unemployment, our country still struggles from nearly record-high welfare enrollment.

Too many Americans remain on the sidelines of our economy. Today, a record 28 million able-bodied adults receive Medicaid, a 400 percent increase since 2000. More than 43 percent of all households receiving federal housing assistance are headed by an able-bodied adult. And in 2016, more than 16 million able-bodied adults received food stamps.

Our social safety net exists to protect low-income families from poverty and hardship, and to help people get back on their feet. Despite all the good intentions, our nation’s welfare system continues to encourage a culture of dependency rather than self-sufficiency.

As a child growing up with a single mother in Detroit, I witnessed the corrosive effect of welfare dependency on my extended family and many of our neighbors. Luckily for me, my mother understood that the power of education could free us from this dependency. Working multiple jobs, she refused to be bound by government programs that locked us into our lot in life.

Although my mother grew up in poverty and attained very little formal education, she believed that any path to success is built upon the books she encouraged me and my brother to read and the work ethic she instilled in me.

She was blessed with enormous faith, believing it would carry our family through all adversity, once telling an interviewer, “God is greater than any human being, and we have to rely on God to supply all our needs even though we don’t see how we’re going to get them.”

Too many of our neighbors are caught in a welfare system that perpetuates a cycle of poverty and breaks the American spirit of work, free enterprise and family. I often wonder what some of my childhood friends could have achieved if our welfare system promoted these fundamental keys to escaping poverty. What new inventions, policy ideas, medical advances, and discoveries never happen because too many languish in poverty?

It’s been more than 50 years since President Lyndon B. Johnson declared war on poverty, and 20 years since the last meaningful effort to reform our welfare system. But it has not proven to be enough.

To unlock America’s full potential, we need a welfare system of opportunity for the 21st century. The executive order signed by President Trump on Tuesday is a big step in the right direction.

Our welfare system should be a pathway to self-sufficiency by focusing on work and stable families, giving hope to their dreams and a foundation for their success. We need a dynamic and innovative welfare system for today’s dynamic economy.

Furthermore, we need a welfare system that is data-driven and measures outcomes, not just participation. If we cannot measure the true impact of our programs on their participants, we will only perpetuate the cycle of poverty.

This year I have instructed my staff to begin measuring the number of successful exits across our rental assistance programs, something HUD has historically never done. We need to target our resources to programs that achieve real change for those we set out to help.

Every American wants the dignity of providing for themselves and their families. Millions of people strive every day to escape poverty. It’s time we reform our welfare system to support them and unlock the untapped human potential in our forgotten inner cities and small towns. If we don’t, we could be missing out on the next award-winning brain surgeon. Together, we can unlock America’s full potential.

https://www.northjersey.com/story/opinion/contributors/2017/12/18/ben-carson-homelessness-knows-no-season-part-solution/962211001/

As much as we are tempted to look away, we cannot deny the obvious human need when we see our neighbors, forced by circumstance or a disabling condition, living on our streets and in our shelters.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development’s latest estimate shows that nearly 554,000 persons experienced homelessness on a single night last January. While the numbers show important progress is being made, they also reveal the tremendous need for affordable housing, especially in high-cost areas such as Los Angeles and Seattle. Meanwhile, there is a growing list of cities, counties and states where we’re seeing reductions in homelessness, even ending homelessness among veterans or others living on the streets for long periods of time. Most recently, local leaders in the Kansas City and Pittsburgh areas declared an effective end to veteran homelessness.

There has been a growing mountain of data showing that a housing-first approach works to reduce not only costs to taxpayers but also the human toll. Once we give people a stable place to live, it becomes much easier to provide mental and physical health treatment, education and job training – essential rungs on the ladder out of homelessness.

As we prepare to turn the calendar on another year, we can say without hesitation that we know how to end homelessness. Still, there are larger economic forces at work that require marketwide response to the affordable rental housing crisis.

HUD and our local partners are on the front lines in this struggle. While the level of targeted assistance continues to grow, the level of need remains high. HUD programs and local initiatives such as Measure H in Los Angeles County, which is providing more than $355 million annually over 10 years to fund ongoing services and housing, can be part of the solution.

As a nation, let us not look away.

https://www.houstonchronicle.com/opinion/outlook/article/Carson-Houstonians-can-count-on-HUD-12245465.php

As Houston rebuilds in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, the Department of Housing and Urban Development is committed to ensuring safe, affordable housing for all those affected by the disaster.

There is much to do, and HUD is working on the front lines in Texas. We want to be your ear in Houston and your voice in Washington, and we aim to provide a humane and effective response.

Since the hurricane, I've been to Texas twice with the president and a third time with my team, and we are aware of the lengthy task before us. HUD has been tasked with comprehensive, long-term disaster relief. That commitment will remain steadfast.

Even before the hurricane hit, HUD had staff on the ground. In fact, many employees volunteered to go to Houston, becoming the face of the department and providing first-hand assessments. They insisted to be there, with you. HUD employees are acting as an immediate source of information, support, and action; they are a human link between those in need and HUD resources. We want you to know that this is personal for us, too.

HUD has been working closely with FEMA and other agencies, as well as our state and local partners, to coordinate our efforts and make sure we are fully responsive. They are helping us locate vacancies and moving displaced residents into safer housing. This includes Public Housing Agencies and Multi-Family owners. We are also working closely with homeless shelters and with make-shift shelters so they have the resources they need. And we are working to place those in shelters into long-term or permanent housing.

We also are providing Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance, which is available to people who have lost their homes. This will enable people to rebuild or buy another home. Some people will be eligible for 100 percent financing through HUD's Section 203(h) program. You can learn more about it on the HUD's web site.

We have also granted foreclosure relief for those who need it. HUD is granting a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures and forbearance on foreclosures of FHA-insured home mortgages.

We are also making insurance available for both mortgages and home rehabilitation through HUD's Section 203(k) program. This will enable people who have lost their homes to finance the purchase or refinance of a house, as well as its repair, through a single mortgage. It also allows homeowners who have damaged homes to finance the rehabilitation of their single existing single-family home.

Additionally, we are offering state and local governments Section 108 Federally-guaranteed loan guarantee assistance. This will be used for housing rehabilitation, economic development, and repair of public infrastructure.

We are doing all this, and more. HUD is part of the process of recovery, providing the information, cooperation, and commitment, now and in the years to come, that Americans expect and deserve. As long as Texas needs us, we are there.

There is a telling, testing comment by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. that should inspire us in the wake of such destruction. He said, "The true measure of a man is not how he behaves in times of comfort and convenience but how he stands in times of controversy and challenges."

At HUD, we stand with you.

https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/jul/23/ben-carson-obamas-housing-rules-try-to-accomplish-/

Remember busing, that brilliant social experiment that was to usher in a new era of racial utopia in America? Undaunted by the failed socialist experiments of the 1980s, the Obama administration has recently implemented a new Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) rule designed to “desegregate” housing by withholding funds from communities that fail to demonstrate their projects “affirmatively further” fair housing.

To place this in context, it’s useful to look back at the failure of school busing. After Brown v. Board of Education effectively ended de jure discrimination in public accommodations from schools to housing, many whites in the South continued to flout Brown and did everything they could to keep blacks out of all-white high schools.

In response, various municipalities mandated busing as a means of forcibly integrating public education and — by fiat — ensuring that educational funding was not unequally distributed based on race. The rationale was that if white parents had to send their children to black schools, they would help to ensure that those schools were better equipped.

But by almost every objective, the experiment failed. Not only was there no real statistical improvement in school integration (the percentage of blacks attending majority black schools from 1972 to 1980 moved from 63.6 percent to 63.3 percent), but the program was unpopular among both blacks and whites.

Both middle-class whites and blacks who could, fled to the suburbs to escape mandated busing. This contributed to a blighted inner cities in which poverty and school segregation became even more concentrated. Furthermore, even inner-city black school districts resented busing and the fact that their children were forced to travel for hours as part of a social experiment.

To be fair, white flight was not exclusively the consequence of forced integration policies. Other private and public housing policies such as redlining, restrictive covenants, discriminatory steering by real estate agents and restricted access to private capital — all attempts at social engineering — exacerbated the suburban segregation in the 1970s and ‘80s.

It is true that the Fair Housing Act and other laws have greatly reduced explicit discrimination in housing, but significant disparities in housing availability and quality persist. To address them, The Obama administration’s new agency rules rely on a tortured reading of the Fair Housing laws to empower the Department of Housing and Urban Development to “affirmatively promote” fair housing, even in the absence of explicit discrimination.

The new rule would not only condition the grant of HUD funds to municipalities on building affordable housing as is the case today, but would require that such affordable housing be built primarily in wealthier neighborhoods with few current minority residents and that the new housing be aggressively marketed to minorities. In practice, the rule would fundamentally change the nature of some communities from primarily single-family to largely apartment-based areas by encouraging municipalities to strike down housing ordinances that have no overtly (or even intended) discriminatory purpose — including race-neutral zoning restrictions on lot sizes and limits on multi-unit dwellings, all in the name of promoting diversity.

These rules come on the heels of a Supreme Court decision narrowly upholding the use of “disparate impact” analysis in determining whether municipal housing policies have a racially discriminatory effect, whether intended or not. Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs vs. Inclusive Communities Project, et al., turned on whether the Texas housing agency decision to authorize more subsidized housing developments in poor rather than wealthy areas was racially discriminatory since it resulted in less affordable housing being made available in wealthier, non-black areas. The court ruled that it was proper for the lower courts and HUD to make a determination based on “disparate impact” rather than any specific intent to discriminate.

Fair housing advocates saw this as a victory, but as with other mandated social-engineering schemes, the sort of unintended consequences Justice Samuel Alito alluded to in his dissent lurk in the shadows. New York Mayor Bill DeBlasio recently announced a plan to build almost 80,000 new affordable housing units in the city’s minority neighborhoods, but the new rules could conceivably prevent their construction because of the “disparate impact” doing so might have on minority access to affordable housing in non-minority areas of the city.

These government-engineered attempts to legislate racial equality create consequences that often make matters worse. There are reasonable ways to use housing policy to enhance the opportunities available to lower-income citizens, but based on the history of failed socialist experiments in this country, entrusting the government to get it right can prove downright dangerous.