https://www.orlandosentinel.com/opinion/os-ed-betsy-devos-schools-must-do-better-20180412-story.html

The report card is in, and the results are disappointing for families and educators across the nation.

Every two years, the Department’s National Center for Education Statistics releases the National Assessment of Educational Progress, more commonly referred to as “the nation’s report card.”

The data show that, despite some meaningful improvements, our nation’s reading and math scores continue to stagnate. There was virtually no change in overall performance levels from the 2015 assessment, leaving nearly two-thirds of fourth- and eighth-graders below the proficient level in reading. The numbers are similar in math.

Pause and consider those statistics: Only one out three of America’s students score above average in reading and math.

More alarmingly, the gap between the highest and lowest achieving students has grown — despite directing billions of federal dollars targeted to close the achievement gap. Sadly, the achievement gap has also grown for minority students and disadvantaged youth.

These results are simply unacceptable in the United States. Families deserve better. It is time for state, local and federal leaders to put partisan politics aside and commit to meaningful reforms designed to improve student outcomes.

Rather than simply advocating for increasing funding for the same ineffective programs and expecting a different result — a notion Einstein deemed to be the definition of insanity — perhaps it is time for us to rethink how that money is used and whether it can be used more effectively to improve outcomes for individual students.

The nation’s report card shows higher marks for one state that has embraced such an approach: Florida. Students in Florida demonstrated improvement across the board. More important, students with lower achievement levels showed encouraging gains. Florida’s African-American and Hispanic students also made notable gains compared to their peers, another positive trend not seen in other states.

It should not come as a surprise that students achieving at higher levels are in the state that has undertaken the most systemic approach to reform its education system.

Florida offers the most expansive menu of school-choice options available to students and families in the country, with many high-quality traditional public and charter schools, education savings accounts, opportunities for children with disabilities to attend the school that meets their unique needs and nearly $700 million awarded per year in scholarships to low-income children to attend a school of their choice. But school choice alone does not account for rising scores.

Driven by strong leadership at the state and local level, Florida has taken a holistic approach to reform. The state gave parents a new level of transparency into their schools by pioneering the nation’s first A-F rating system for every public school. To assist struggling schools, the state increased flexibility and funds in exchange for the school providing a detailed plan of how it intended to improve student achievement. And the state invested in attracting and rewarding high-performing teachers.

Every state is different, and Florida’s specific reforms may not work for every state. But states should look to Florida’s unwillingness to accept the status quo and the state’s determination to implement reforms that will benefit the educational pursuits of every student.

As a parent, I continually challenge my children to do better and to reach higher. As secretary of education, I want nothing less for every student in America — a chance to succeed academically and be prepared to achieve his or her full potential.

As a nation, we are failing to provide an opportunity to achieve the American Dream for far too many students.

https://blog.ed.gov/2018/10/rethinkschool-meeting-needs-students-new-approaches-education/#more-27513

During our annual Rethink School Tour, I had the pleasure of joining 16 other Department of Education officials in highlighting a number of interesting approaches to education. The tour covered 46 states, 2 territories and the District of Columbia.

I kicked off my Rethink Tour at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia where I learned about the university’s innovative student programs. I was able to interact with developing entrepreneurs who will be future business leaders. Georgia Tech has questioned everything about their current model and is now expanding their online and remote learning opportunities so students with varying needs can pursue a great education.  Additionally, I had the chance to see the new MyStudentAid mobile app in action as students enrolled and completed their FASFA form on their phones.

Next, I visited the Marshall Space Flight Center and U.S. Space and Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama. While touring the Payload Operations Center at Marshall, I enjoyed a recorded message from Astronaut Ricky Arnold, who the following day returned home from his 197-day mission in space. I was then able to join a group of students from across the world for their Space Camp mission, where we successfully flew our lunar lander to the Moon, performed several lunar habitat experiments and returned to Earth in the Orion capsule.

While at the Center in Huntsville, which symbolizes unlimited horizons, I encouraged everyone to question everything to ensure nothing limits students from being prepared for what comes next.

The following morning I was off to Tuscaloosa to visit both the Rise Center and Shelton State Community College. The Rise Center is an early childhood learning center that truly creates a nurturing environment for students of all needs to come together for their important, early years of learning. During my visit to Shelton State Community College, I toured the various career and technical education classrooms and even tried my hand at operating a CNC (computer-numerically-controlled) machine. Shelton State maintains close partnerships with regional businesses, which enables students to learn the necessary and relevant skills required for the high-skilled and high-paying jobs in the area.

From Alabama, I moved on to Lexington, Mississippi. In Lexington, I visited Holmes County Central High School, where they are implementing a program that provides promising high school students access to advanced courses in a blended classroom setting. This district is taking a creative approach to remove the limits rural school locations place on students’ learning. Through online resources, college tutors and in-class instructors, students have the opportunity to study advanced physics with remote teaching from a Yale professor.

I closed out my day in Mississippi by joining a Mississippi Home Educators Association outing to the Mississippi Children’s Museum. I enjoyed visiting with the homeschool families and observing how they leverage local community resources as hands-on experiences. Learning shouldn’t be confined only within school buildings.

My final day on the Rethink School Tour was spent in New Orleans, Louisiana. I began at Edward Hynes Charter School where I was joined by Majority Whip Steve Scalise. I observed several of their French immersion classrooms, where students put their foreign language courses to use in many ways, including doing their science lessons in French.

My tour concluded with a visit to the New Orleans Military and Maritime Academy. Here I learned about their Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officer’s Training Corps (JROTC) program, the only one of its kind in the country. I was impressed by the students’ ability to articulate what they had learned and express the opportunities they see beyond high school.

It was an exciting few weeks on the Rethink School Tour as we observed the new approaches to education that are meeting the needs of individual students across the United States. The schools I visited during my Rethink Tour are examples we need many, many more of. All students deserve these creative approaches to education.

https://blog.ed.gov/2018/06/combating-the-opioid-crisis/#more-26926

The opioid crisis has produced broken families, shattered lives and indescribable tragedy throughout the United States. Drug overdoses have claimed more than 300,000 lives since the year 2000 and have become the leading cause of injury death in the country. In 2016, more than two million Americans had an addiction to prescription or illicit opioids. No community is immune to this “crisis next door.”

On October 26, 2017 President Trump declared the opioid crisis a national public health emergency. The Presidential Memorandum he issued that day expresses the Administration’s commitment to addressing the opioid crisis and its effects.

The Department of Education and other Federal agencies throughout the Administration are actively combating the opioid crisis. On the newly-created Opioids.gov you can see the magnitude of the crisis and the Administration’s efforts to combat it – from stopping the flow of illicit opioids into the U.S. to providing first responders with overdose-reversing drugs increasing access to treatment. Americans can share their own stories at CrisisNextDoor.gov, and I certainly encourage students, parents and educators to share how they have been impacted.

I recently visited the powerful “Prescribed to Death” memorial at the White House that honors the precious lives lost to opioid misuse. While the numbers are staggering, this memorial helped to illustrate the reality that this crisis is not about numbers, it’s about real, individual people. It’s about lives cut far too short. It’s about the grief of families losing sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers to the tragedy of overdose.

The impact on children has been especially profound. In just a dozen years, the incidence of infants born drug-dependent increased by almost 500 percent. Nearly a third of all incidents of children being placed into foster care is a result of parental drug misuse. Not unexpectedly, our nation’s schools are on the forefront of dealing with this crisis.

The Department of Education is engaged in a two-pronged approach to addressing the crisis. First, we are helping to educate students, families and educators about the dangers of opioid misuse as well as the importance of prevention and recovery. We are also supporting State and local prevention and recovery efforts and highlighting successful practices by schools.

One such school is Johnstown Elementary, located in western Pennsylvania and in a community hit hard by the opioid epidemic. I visited Johnstown earlier this year to see the school’s unique program to strengthen social and emotional learning to aid in preventing drug abuse and violence. I was impressed by the program’s focus on promoting good behavior instead of merely reacting to bad behavior and observed students as young as kindergarten putting it into practice. While there is no one-size-fits-all solution, Johnstown’s approach could easily be replicated by many other schools.

The Department of Education’s website Combating the Opioid Crisis: Schools, Students, Families houses a number of resources from throughout the federal government that can help inform awareness, prevention and recovery efforts. State and local officials can also check out our recent webinar on how to respond to the opioid crisis in schools here.

These efforts are just the beginning of our work to combat the opioid crisis. We’ll continue to work with students, parents, educators, health care professionals and all others across the nation to educate Americans about the dangers of opioid abuse, help prevent opioid misuse and halt the devastation these drugs have wreaked.

https://blog.ed.gov/2018/06/betsys-blog-switzerland-apprenticeships/#more-26884

There’s a lot we as Americans can learn from other countries and how they set their students up for successful lives and careers. That’s why as part of my first trip abroad as Secretary I chose to visit Switzerland and witness their innovative approach to apprenticeships. There this sort of educational opportunity is not only the norm, it is highly coveted by students!

In Switzerland, the education sector partners closely with businesses to provide apprenticeships for students in a variety of professions. Two-thirds of current Swiss students pursue their education through one of the 250 types of government-recognized apprenticeships. Meanwhile, only 17 percent of U.S. students have worked in an internship or apprenticeship related to their career goals.

Swiss apprenticeships include programs for welders and carpenters, like they do in the U.S., but Swiss students can also apprentice in the healthcare, finance and law fields as well. In fact, CEOs of multiple major Swiss companies began their careers as apprentices. That’s not commonplace in America, but perhaps it should be!

Such a robust culture of technical education demonstrates three key things. First, that young people can be productive members of the workforce. Second, that businesses should take an active role in cultivating the next generation of talent. And third, that hands-on learning should not be seen as a last resort for those who struggle in a traditional classroom setting.  All students benefit when they have the chance to apply what they are learning in school to solve problems and accomplish practical applications in the workplace.

There are a multitude of paths a student can pursue in higher education, and each should be seen as valid. If a path is the right fit for the student, then it’s the right education. No stigma should stand in the way of a student’s journey to success.

That’s why President Trump directed his Administration to find ways to expand apprenticeships back here at home. We joined with leaders from business, labor and education with the charge to expand the number of options to “earn and learn”, and to encourage the private sector and higher education to advance this important opportunity for our nation’s economic future. We made a number of concrete, common-sense recommendations, which you can learn more about here.

It’s true that education in the United States isn’t exactly the same as it is in Switzerland, and that U.S. companies don’t have the same experience in delivering apprenticeships as Swiss companies. But there’s still much that we can learn from the Swiss model. It’s our hope that Swiss companies operating in the U.S. will help lead the way by setting the best examples for other U.S. businesses to participate in apprenticeships. The many opportunities apprenticeships afford students are worth highlighting and expanding, and we’ll continue to do so.

https://blog.ed.gov/2018/04/betsys-blog-listening-sessions-school-safety-climate/#more-26680

Over the past several weeks there has been much discussion around how school discipline policies can ensure a safe and supportive climate where children can learn. While there are many different approaches, everyone agrees that discrimination against any student is abhorrent and wrong. Federal laws prohibit such discrimination in our nation’s schools, and the Department’s Office for Civil Rights vigorously enforces these civil rights laws to ensure equal access to education.

According to the Civil Rights Data Collection, African-American students are subject to exclusionary discipline (such as suspensions or expulsions) at higher rates than white students. The data show similar patterns for other groups: for example, boys are suspended more often than girls, as are students with disabilities when compared to students without disabilities. It was in response to this data that the prior administration issued a Dear Colleague Letter, or federal guidance, to states and school districts instructing them to adopt new approaches to school discipline so as to ensure that these students are not disproportionately impacted. Many in the education community cheered this guidance as a positive step.

But since the guidance was released, many educators, parents and students have raised concerns that schools have actually become less safe by restricting teachers’ and administrators’ ability to maintain order in their classrooms. They claim that the guidance ignores the law and places statistics over students without addressing the behavior of individual students and how educators should respond and discipline students when necessary. They view the guidance as creating an unsafe environment that has harmed learning.

That’s why earlier this week the Department hosted two listening sessions about the 2014 guidance. We brought in teachers, parents, students, administrators, researchers, advocates and union representatives to hear their varying views on whether the guidance should be kept as is, amended or rescinded.

We heard powerful testimony from many individuals. One teacher from Massachusetts told us about the economically distressed community in which she teaches, and how out-of-school suspensions could put students in a dangerous environment with little oversight. A school district representative from Illinois described how implementation of social-emotional learning practices in her district helped students learn to settle their differences without violence, and helped foster a nurturing school environment, which they may not experience at home.

Yet one teacher from North Carolina described how the district’s change in discipline policies imposed severe constraints on teachers’ abilities to control their classrooms. Order in the classroom quickly deteriorated, making it impossible for students to learn. This teacher noted that the unsafe climate in schools caused many teachers to leave the profession in the last few years, further hurting students’ ability to learn and grow.

Another teacher from New York described how students would regularly threaten their peers and teachers, but school administrators would not allow students to be disciplined, citing the need to reduce the number of suspensions. A former administrator from California told us that after her district changed its discipline policies, schools would send kids home informally to avoid impacting the schools’ suspension rates.

These listening sessions made clear that while progress is being made for some students and educators, the situation for others has worsened. We as a country cannot be satisfied until all students have access to a safe and nurturing learning environment where they can grow and thrive. As a country, we must honor that promise to our nation’s students.

https://www.edweek.org/ew/articles/2018/06/28/betsy-devos-how-we-can-catch-up.html

Education and workforce policies have always been intimately linked, yet for decades the federal government has addressed them separately with two different departments. President Donald Trump recently announced a bold plan to remedy that with a new Department of Education and the Workforce that would reduce the federal footprint in education and make the federal government more responsive to the full range of needs faced by American students and workers. It would also help catch us up to how students in other countries pursue their education.

I saw such approaches during my first international trip as the U.S. secretary of education to schools in Switzerland, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Each country takes a holistic approach to education to prepare students for career and life success. But it might be surprising to learn one topic didn’t come up: school choice.

I visited several different schools that are providing new and exciting learning opportunities for students at all levels. But “school choice” doesn’t dominate the conversation in these countries, because freedom in education isn’t controversial—it’s common sense. In the United States, some view offering families the freedom to make educational decisions with contempt. Defenders of the status quo fear that greater choice for parents and flexibility for educators will lead to underfunded schools and ultimately harm student performance.

In the countries I visited, education is oriented around the distinct needs of each student. In the Netherlands, freedom in education is enshrined in the constitution, which requires that the state provide equal funding for both publicly run and private schools. Two-thirds of students in the Netherlands attend schools that are privately run and taxpayer funded.

The Dutch approach empowers educators and parents by encouraging local autonomy in the classroom. This autonomy creates a wealth of options from which families can choose. Different approaches to student instruction are crucial for educational freedom to be meaningful.

I think of my visit to Imelda Primary School in Rotterdam. This Catholic school’s faith-based education focuses on respect and service to community. It also infuses the arts into all aspects of instruction, helping students understand abstract concepts and think critically.

In England, greater autonomy at the school level has been encouraged with the creation of “academies,” similar to charter schools in the United States, and “free schools,” both of which are granted significantly more flexibility for educators. Under Prime Minister David Cameron, the number of academies greatly increased, and free schools were created to serve as incubators of innovation and improve student achievement. Today, more than 70 percent of secondary schools in England have adopted the academy or free school model.

One school that stood out was the Grey Coat Hospital School in London, which reorganized as an academy in 2012. A girls' school run by the Church of England, GCHS reorganized as an academy in 2012, which allows the school greater autonomy to meet the needs and interests of its students. Students develop their own ideas for long-term projects and are encouraged to be independent through open-ended assignments and practical workshops, preparing them for the next stage of their education journey.

Switzerland is known for its robust apprenticeship program, with more than two-thirds of high school students engaged in one of the roughly 300 government-recognized apprenticeships. We saw the efficacy of this approach at Asea Brown Boveri’s plant in Zurich. ABB is one of many companies that partner with the country’s education system to offer students experience in high-earning fields like machinery and electronics. Students are exposed to many rewarding career paths, but they also have the choice to pursue an education at a traditional university. It’s not an “either/or” decision—as the Swiss say, “there are no dead ends in Switzerland’s education system.”

Switzerland, the Netherlands and the U.K. are proud of their education systems, but they don’t rest on their laurels—they continually look to improve. The data demonstrates the effectiveness of their approaches. In science and math, students in Switzerland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom outperformed U.S. students on the most recent Program for International Student Assessment. The United States ranked 23rd in reading, 25th in science, and 40th in math. If we finished 40th in the Olympics there’d be a national outcry!

Families need more freedom to choose their child’s education and educators must be empowered to innovate, or we will continue to lag behind the rest of the world. In the countries I visited, “private” and “public” schools alike are valued and recognized for educating students in meaningful ways, thus contributing to the public good. Families are afforded the respect to choose which school will best meet their child’s educational needs. Students are exposed to many paths and given the tools to pursue their interests.

Now, simply copying European approaches will not be sufficient—American communities have their own unique challenges and needs. But the Netherlands and the United Kingdom show that high student achievement is possible with robust parental choice and flexibility for educators. Switzerland shows the benefit of giving students a wide variety of career options through apprenticeships. Most importantly, these countries show that a commitment to freedom in education can produce student success.

For the United States, lasting and positive changes to education cannot and should not be mandated by the federal government. We’ve tried that before—such as with No Child Left Behind, Race to the Top, and School Improvement Grants—with little to no success. And when the U.S. Department of Education was founded, it was charged to “prohibit federal control of education.” That’s a charge I take seriously.

Instead, forward-thinking states and school districts should take note of the effective approaches found abroad, and they should consider how they can extend educational freedom to their own constituents.

States and school districts should empower families with more options to find the best fit for their children—whether through open enrollment, charter schools, tax-credit scholarships, vouchers, portable student funding, or other mechanisms.

States and school districts can empower educators with greater flexibility to meet the needs of the students they serve. That means reducing the paperwork burden on classroom teachers and letting them do what they do best: teach. It means abandoning a one-size-fits-all approach to instruction. And it means compensating great teachers well.

Finally, and perhaps most critically, we must ask ourselves who should have the greater say in education: students and their families, or the nation’s most entrenched status quo? The countries I visited have answered that question on the side of students. Americans should demand the same.

https://www.capitalgazette.com/opinion/bs-ed-op-0604-devos-safety-20180601-story.html

When students come to school, they need to focus on learning and growing. They shouldn’t need to worry about where to hide in the event of a school shooting. Sadly, mass shootings in Parkland, Fla.; Santa Fe, Texas; and, most recently, Noblesville, Ind., have made plain why many students fear the possibility of such a scenario in their own school. That’s unacceptable. No student, no parent, no teacher should have to worry about their safety at school. Enough is enough. America demands action.

In the wake of the tragedy at Stoneman Douglas, President Donald Trump took swift action and put forward a number of recommendations for Congress, states and local communities to adopt to make schools safer. Congress responded by including a number of his recommendations in the omnibus spending bill passed this year. That’s a good start, but more remains to be done.

To help local communities prevent future tragedies, President Trump asked me to chair the Federal Commission on School Safety, alongside fellow commissioners Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar and Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen. The commission will provide recommendations to prevent school violence — with a special focus on strengthening school security, improving access to effective mental health treatment, increasing information sharing among appropriate authorities and ensuring that successful programs are sufficiently supported by federal, state and local funding.

Schools and communities across the country have enacted best practices that are working. Our commission will identify and amplify them. That’s what brought us to Frank Hebron-Harman Elementary School in Anne Arundel County this week.

Creating a positive school climate is crucial to combating the social and emotional isolation that can drive students to violent behavior. As part of its holistic approach to fostering a safe and supportive climate throughout the school district, Anne Arundel County Public Schools has implemented Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), a program that assists school personnel to develop a positive school culture, with the goal of improving academics and social behavior. PBIS also allows for local flexibility in the selection and implementation of the specific practices that best suit the school’s resources and needs.

We saw PBIS in action during our visit to Hebron-Harman, where students participated in whole-group and small-group activities that help them build relationships with their peers. We also heard from nearby schools that have successfully implemented PBIS — each in different ways to best serve the unique needs of their students.

PBIS is currently implemented in over 25,000 schools, but it is not a cure-all, and it may not be the right fit for every school. There are a number of different ways to foster a positive school culture and tackle social isolation, but they require heartfelt compassion and commitment from educators. I think of a simple but effective effort: A teacher rearranges her classroom seating every two weeks, but before doing so, she asks each student to write down the names of five students they’d like to sit close to, and five they think would like to sit close to them. Through this practice, she can identify which students don’t have connections with their classmates. This is something teachers across the country could start doing today.

It is imperative that we find meaningful ways to help children connect with their school community and address their social and emotional learning needs. We encourage parents, educators and local officials throughout our nation to begin the conversation on how they can best create safe and supportive learning environments in their own communities.

Naturally, primary responsibility for the physical security of schools rests with states and local communities. But our commission will continue the important work of identifying the root causes of violence in our schools and communities, and to disseminate solutions that educators and families can confidently implement to make their schools safe and secure places of learning.