https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/mh17-shoot-down-heres-what-we-need-to-do-next-with-putin-ukraine

The tragic death of 298 people on board Malaysian Airlines flight 17 in a wheat field in eastern Ukraine marks a moment when words of disapproval and expressions of grief are not enough. This is a moment when action must follow the outrage and rhetorical condemnation.

I believe this is a defining event in history.

It is a defining event for Russia and its President Vladimir Putin. It is no secret that Putin has imperial ambitions, motivated by his pathological insecurities and a quest to restore lost glories. These are dangerous delusions that, if not confronted firmly, will come to threaten us all.

It is a defining event for the United States and the European Union. The festering danger in Ukraine is a result of the civilized world’s faltering half-steps as a meager response to Russia’s invasion of a neighbor and violation of sovereign borders. This is an opportunity for American leadership, in step with our European allies, to spur the community of nations to act together and be a force for good.

And it’s a defining event for President Obama and German Chancellor Angela Merkel. These two leaders can stand up and demonstrate leadership that will shape history.

Given the significance of this moment, what are we to do?

1. Ask the entire civilized world to join the United States in condemning this outrageous act.
Events like this tragedy have no place in the modern world, and this unassailable fact must be acknowledged globally. The condemnation needs to be so loud that the Kremlin will hear it.

2. Demand full and complete cooperation with the ongoing investigation.
While many details about the crash are starting to emerge, we all want a full and detailed examination and accounting of exactly what happened. Our commitment to rule of law, rules of evidence, and the demands of justice require that we go through the investigative process, and we must insist on the access to do so.

We must demand full, immediate, unhindered access to the site of the tragedy – including all parts of the aircraft, missile battery, and site evidence – and most of all, proper treatment of the remains of the many victims. President Putin can himself ensure that access, and he absolutely must be required to do so.

3. Demand an immediate stand down in Ukraine.
Crimes like Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 could only happen in such a lawless wasteland of renegades and desperados with their fingers on the triggers of the world’s most advanced weapons.

Lawlessness reigns in Eastern Ukraine because the government of that nation does not yet have sovereign control of its own territory.

This situation is a direct result of Putin’s outrageous territorial aggression that has already severed an arm of Ukraine and threatens the entire country’s disintegration. The Russian separatists in Eastern Ukraine have been organized, motivated, trained, equipped, unleashed, guided, and controlled by the forces of the Russian Federation, who are controlled with totalitarian thoroughness by Vladimir Putin.

Now we see a new tragic result of this aggression and sponsorship of ruthless renegades – a blatant act of terrorism inflicted on innocents. This problem will only get worse unless we demand that Russian behavior change and Putin’s aggression stop.

The only solution to the Ukraine problem, one that is consistent with international law, the demands of order and civility, and the requirements of justice, is that the government of Ukraine must have sovereign control over its own territory.

4. The U.S. and Europe must at last act vigorously and in unison.
Until now, President Obama has sent largely weak signals to Putin about the seriousness of Russia’s actions. And our European partners have been reluctant to act, hypnotized by anxiety about their economic dependency. Let us hope after the horrific act of terror against 298 innocent passengers on Malaysia Air Flight 17, this is changing.

History will see this event as a watershed moment. Some argue that the Soviet downing of Korean flight 007 in 1983 was an event that exposed the true nature of the Soviet regime, and hastened its decay. Similarly, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 reveals to any remaining doubters the nature of Putin and his brutal ambitions and ruthlessness.

With illusions stripped away, and the inadequacy of half measures revealed, we must now act together. We can respond to this tragedy by forging a new unity. Only the most robust and concerted actions to impose economic sanctions on Russia has a chance to change Putin’s behavior and end Russian support for the separatist militants.

We and the Europeans together must impose those costs. We need to target the fragile, dependent Russian economy through sanctions on Russia’s energy sector and state-backed arms exporter.

While it may take some time for Russia to feel the effects of sanctions on its energy sector, we can take action today that would have an immediate effect.

I have introduced legislation that prohibit all government contracts with Putin’s arms dealer.Taking steps to meaningfully obstruct this agency’s work and the revenue it provides the Russian state is among the most effective ways we can condemn Putin’s aggression.

Through these specific sanctions, we can demand that Putin end his support for the separatists and accept a stable Ukraine. If not, we must bring Russia’s economy to its knees.

This crisis has reached a point of high tension, great tragedy and escalating consequences. These potential consequences are dangerous for us all, but most of all, for Putin’s Russia.

Russia’s president holds in his hands the ability to deescalate the crisis or pay a very steep price.

It is Putin’s choice to bring this situation back from the brink. It is our obligation – along with our European partners – to make his choice crystal clear.

https://www.timesrecordnews.com/story/opinion/2018/08/06/white-house-were-making-election-security-top-priority/910358002/

I would like the American people to know that the intelligence community and all of its agencies are postured to identify threats of all kinds against the United States. The president has specifically directed us to make the matter of election meddling and securing our election process a top priority, and we have done that, and are doing that, and will continue to do so.

We have incorporated the lessons learned from the 2016 election, and implemented a broad spectrum of actions to share more information across the federal government, as well as with state and local governments, and also with the public and the private sector. The intelligence community continues to be concerned about the threats of upcoming U.S. elections, both the midterms and the presidential elections of 2020.

In regards to Russian involvement in the midterm elections, we continue to see a pervasive messaging campaign by Russia to try to weaken and divide the United States. These efforts are not exclusive to this election or future elections, but certainly, cover issues relevant to the election.

We also know the Russians try to hack into and steal information from candidates and government officials alike. We are aware that Russia is not the only country that has an interest in trying to influence our domestic political environment. We know there are others that have the capability, and may be considering influence activities. As such, we will continue to monitor and warn of any such efforts.

I am committed to making sure that the intelligence community is working together in integrating across organizations and missions, and seeking greater transparency with the public. ...

The intelligence community’s focus right now is persistent support to the FBI, to the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies in their election responsibilities, and my office is ensuring these organizations receive timely and proactive intelligence community support.

https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/05/15/gina-haspel-cia-nominee-wont-repeat-past-mistakes-dan-coats-column/607087002/

I am acutely aware of decisions our country made after the 9/11 attacks. Both Gina Haspel and I are committed to making sure we never have to relearn past lessons.

Gina Haspel is precisely the person we need to lead the Central Intelligence Agency at this critical time. Here’s why.

As Director of National Intelligence and leader of the U.S. Intelligence Community, I have testified before Congress and spoken publicly that we currently face the most complex, volatile and diverse threat environment in modern times. 

We are confronted with armed conflicts, instability or humanitarian crises on almost every continent. Global powers like Russia and China are challenging U.S. standing in the world and we face the very real risk of broader conflict in the Middle East, stemming in large part from Iran’s widespread malign activities. Meanwhile, notwithstanding recently improved rhetoric and the release of American prisoners, North Korea remains a real threat. 

Instability and uncertainty create devastating consequences in war zones across Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and countries in Africa. Meanwhile, cross-cutting threats like cyber, transnational crime and WMD proliferation add layers of complexity to this dynamic threat environment.

Given this global landscape, we need to ensure that we have in place the most capable, experienced and measured intelligence leaders to address these serious challenges and provide our policymakers with critical information to make informed decisions. Gina Haspel embodies these qualities.

Over the past year as DNI, I have had the opportunity to get to know Gina and have developed a close and trusting working relationship with her. She enjoys the hard-earned respect of her intelligence community colleagues and the White House. Gina has often joined me and other senior national security leaders for intelligence briefings to President Trump; and he, along with the rest of the team, benefits from the unique perspective she brings to these briefings.  

Gina has clearly demonstrated that she is a person of high integrity with valuable frontline and executive experience as a career intelligence officer, one who is willing to speak truth to power when required on behalf of our nation. Her confirmation represents important progress for the community I represent.

As a former U.S. senator from Indiana and member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I am acutely aware of past decisions made by our country as we grappled with the aftermath of 9/11. If confirmed as CIA director, Gina is committed to making sure we never have to relearn lessons of the past. As DNI, I have made that same commitment.

I ask my former colleagues in the Senate to do the right thing for our country by confirming Gina. She represents the best we have to offer as a country. Gina is a trailblazer who has earned this opportunity by serving this country in challenging assignments at home and abroad. I, along with the CIA and the entire Intelligence Community, am eager to have her at the helm of the CIA.   

https://www.jpost.com/Opinion/End-US-aid-to-Palestinian-terrorists-467652

To provide US taxpayer money to Abbas and his government so that they can treat terrorists as heroes or glorious martyrs is morally unacceptable.

For the past 18 years, the Palestinian Authority has honored Palestinian terrorists serving criminal sentences in Israeli prisons and rewarded the families of those “martyred” by their own violent acts.

This comes as no surprise to Israelis, who have both suffered the attacks of terrorists for decades and watched as the terrorists themselves were honored with official salaries or buried as patriotic heroes.

But it is a surprise to American officials.

Even after two decades of PA support for terrorism, the Obama administration continues to ignore it or even make excuses for these payments.

A recent State Department publication dismissed the payments as “an effort to reintegrate [released prisoners] into society and prevent recruitment by hostile political factions.” Even in the unlikely event leaders at the US State Department actually believe this, they would have to explain why these “social welfare” payments increase dramatically with the severity of the crime for which the terrorist is convicted.

Where else in the world does a prisoner receive benefits that actually increase with the level of violence committed? For the many Americans who have only recently become familiar with this heinous practice, the shock is even greater that American taxpayer dollars have been used to make these payments to terrorists. As a US senator and a custodian of our citizens’ resources, I find this practice reprehensible.

Since 1998 when this terrorist payments program reportedly first began, the United States has contributed more than $4.6 billion (in constant dollars) to the PA . The great majority of this amount has been in straight budgetary support to the PA , enabling it to meet its budgetary commitments.

That includes payments to terrorists and the families of “martyrs.”

It is difficult from the outside to determine how much has been spent rewarding terrorists over that period, although the budget number for the payments program in recent years has been about $128m.

annually. Also, the 2014 PA budget included a separate line item for the “Institution for the Care of Martyrs’ Families” that totaled $155m. Together, these amounts would be 86 percent of the $327.6m. requested this year by the Obama administration for bilateral assistance to the PA .

For the past two years, I have been working with my Senate colleagues to reduce the amount of aid to the PA by the amount that is paid out to terrorists and their families.

When legislation first took effect with that purpose, PA President Mahmoud Abbas tried to avoid such consequences by transferring the program to the PLO .

To put an end to that shell game too, this year we are amending the annual appropriations act accordingly. Our hope is that, by restricting our voluntary assistance to the PA and applying this budgetary pressure, it will end this immoral program of rewarding and encouraging terrorists.

I do understand that some are reluctant to impose more pressure on a financially weak and dependent PA , believing that it would deprive President Abbas of what little remains of his authority and status as a negotiating partner, thus making a negotiated settlement even less likely. Even some Israeli officials have tried to avoid steps that could weaken the PA ’s stability as a West Bank security provider.

But such cold calculations of cause and effect can only follow a firm stand on moral principle. The Palestinian Authority does not deserve immunity just because of its fragility. These payments provide rewards and motivations for brutal terrorists, plain and simple.

To provide US taxpayer money to Abbas and his government so that they can treat terrorists as heroes or glorious martyrs is morally unacceptable. To tolerate such an outrage because of concern for Abbas’s political future or preserving the PA ’s security role amounts to self-imposed extortion.

If the PA ’s fragile financial condition requires US assistance, then it is their policy – not ours – that needs to change.

https://www.cnn.com/2016/05/06/opinions/debt-deniers-coats/index.html

Much has been made about a recent TIME cover story that boldly declared that every American man, woman and child owes $42,998.12 to pay off our national debt.

The article's author, James Grant, framed the federal debt as a burden to be paid by every U.S. citizen, personalizing an otherwise abstract and impersonal statistic. But as Grant himself admits, this visualization tool does not even include intragovernmental debt, which would bring the amount owed per citizen closer to $60,000.

Critics of Grant's piece quickly attempted to dismiss our $19 trillion national debt as a non-issue or a problem easy to solve, as outlined in a Joint Economic Committee report this week. Yet denying that the current size or trajectory of U.S. federal debt is a problem is both dishonest and insulting to the American people. Indeed, despite the claims of some critics, we cannot continue to discount the short-term and long-term effects of our country's debt burden.
These "debt deniers" make three main assertions that must be refuted.
1) Debt deniers say our national debt is not that large, and that the deficit is sustainable.
When President Barack Obama took office, our national debt stood at $10.6 trillion. It now tops $19.2 trillion and is eating up a historically large share of the gross domestic product (GDP). Federal debt is roughly double its historical average of 39% of GDP and set to outpace economic growth over the next decade.
According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, publicly held federal debt is projected to rise to 85.6% of GDP by the end of the next decade, and to 155% within three decades -- the highest percentage ever recorded in the United States. Even the Obama administration's Treasury Department explicitly noted in its annual financial report, "The continuous rise of the debt-to-GDP ratio after 2025 indicates that current policy is unsustainable."
This is a large, dangerous and growing problem.
2) Debt deniers assert there is still time before policymakers need to make drastic decisions.
The CBO estimates that if Congress aims to simply maintain the current debt-to-GDP ratio for the next 25 years, revenues would need to increase by 6% annually, or noninterest spending would need to fall 5.5% annually. Attempting to bring publicly held federal debt back to its historical average would require 14% annual revenue increases or 13% annual noninterest spending cuts.
Can policymakers reprioritize federal spending without restructuring current programs? Not really. Within the next decade, more than 98% of federal revenue will be consumed just by mandatory spending and interest payments on the debt. That does not include spending on other important priorities like national defense and medical research.
With spending on the rise, the longer it takes for policy action, the more significant the changes must be. This is a problem requiring immediate action.
3) Debt deniers claim that reducing debt by slowing spending growth could hurt economic growth.
High levels of publicly held federal debt as a share of the economy negatively affect the private sector. The 2016 Economic Report of the President recognized this threat in other major advanced economies, but the report fails to consider the potentially destructive consequences of high federal debt in the United States. Rising federal debt dampens economic growth, burdening future generations with diminished opportunities and a larger debt burden to pay off.
Painting our national debt as a non-issue is a disservice to the average American because doing so makes it more difficult for our elected representatives to come together in bipartisan agreement to make credible, lasting fiscal reforms.
With all this in mind, Congress should heed the overall warning of TIME magazine's cover story. The U.S. federal debt is a significant problem, and it must be addressed soon. There is no denying this reality.

https://www.cnn.com/2015/11/23/opinions/coats-isis-security-measures/index.html

Recent attacks by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Paris, Beirut, the Sinai Peninsula and other locations underscore the significant terror capabilities of this so-called caliphate. Indeed, ISIS is attracting followers from across the globe, followers who are intent on destroying our way of life.

How serious is the threat?
European law enforcement officials have publicly estimated that between 5,000 and 6,000 European nationals, including British, French, Belgian and Dutch citizens, have traveled to Syria to join ISIS, while the Associated Press reported last week that more than 1,200 ISIS recruits have returned to Europe. Indeed, several of the individuals involved with the Paris attacks are French citizens who spent time training with ISIS.

Some of these suspected recruits have been arrested, but many remain at large as the massive manhunt in Belgium has continued over the weekend. Yet despite it being Brussels that has been in virtual lockdown this weekend, it is important to remember that the threat posed by ISIS recruits is by no means confined to Europe.
For example, FBI Director James Comey recently told Congress that approximately 250 Americans have traveled or attempted to travel to Syria, and that ISIS is communicating with potential American recruits through social media.
"Whether or not the individuals are affiliated with a foreign terrorist organization and are willing to travel abroad to fight or are inspired by the call to arms to act in their communities, they potentially pose a significant threat to the safety of the United States and U.S. persons," Comey said in a statement last month to the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
Given these realities, it is clear we must be more aggressive in taking action to screen all those who enter the United States, as well as take stronger actions against American citizens who join terrorist organizations.
This effort must include a fresh look at the Visa Waiver Program, which allows citizens from 38 participating countries to travel to the United States without first obtaining a visa. This means that travelers from most European countries, Australia and many other nations do not have to go through a visa application process, avoiding the extra scrutiny this process entails.
True, the VWP has been a useful tool to encourage tourism and business travel to our country, and it also has value in allowing the United States to devote greater attention to travelers from countries that lack adequate passport integrity and security systems. However, the benefits should be balanced with security, and there are ways to tighten up current clearance procedures and make them more focused on counterterrorism efforts.
With that in mind, earlier this year, I reintroduced the Counterterrorism Border Security Enhancement Act as a first step in confronting the threats we face. Among my proposals would be to:
-- Review entry procedures by requiring the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the State Department, to consider improvements of existing border security and entry procedures, specifically with respect to the threat of ISIS and growing participation by U.S. and European nationals in terrorist activity.
-- Review and reform the Visa Waiver Program by requiring the Department of Homeland Security to review and update requirements for travelers and partner countries as well as to terminate VWP participation for any country not fully cooperating with information sharing efforts.
-- Improve visa application training by requiring the State Department to submit a plan for training consular officers on visa interview techniques that emphasize counterterrorism efforts.
-- Authorize the State Department to revoke and confiscate the passport of a U.S. citizen suspected of engaging in terrorist activities outside the United States or who has demonstrated an intent to engage in terrorist activities.
-- Add terrorism to the definition of treason by amending federal law to clarify that "terrorist organizations" are considered an enemy.
It is imperative that we address the dangers posed by ISIS before the group is able to strike us here at home. Implementation of these kind of commonsense measures would be a good start in helping to stop that from happening.

https://www.indystar.com/story/opinion/readers/2014/11/16/dan-coats-republicans-need-solution-oriented/19070237/

Americans decisively voted this month to move our country in a new direction. The results of the midterm election represent a repudiation of President Obama’s failed policies but also an opportunity for Republicans in Congress to put forward responsible legislative solutions.

The first and primary responsibility of the federal government is to provide for the security of the American public. Today, our country faces a variety of threats, including radical extremists like ISIS, the Ebola virus and inadequate border security. Unfortunately, many of the administration’s responses to these challenges have failed: an unenforced red line with Syria, dubious negotiations with Iran and promoting amnesty for those in the United States illegally. Addressing these issues and protecting our homeland is paramount at this critical time, and Congress has an important role to play.

Additionally, Republicans should concentrate on passing legislation that will grow the economy. This is a focus that Washington lacked over the past several years despite an anemic recovery from the 2008 financial crisis.

Since 2009, the percentage of working-age Americans who are not in the labor force has reached near-record levels. There are fewer full-time jobs in America than when the recession started. And nearly 29 million of the 124.5 million Americans in prime working years — ages 25-54 — are not employed. As Hoosiers, we are fortunate to live in a state that is fiscally responsible and a destination for employers, but overall our country is struggling.

The GOP agenda for the next Congress should include common-sense, bipartisan ideas that President Obama has repeatedly resisted: repealing the excise tax on medical devices, constructing the Keystone XL pipeline and reforming federal regulations that prevent businesses from growing and hiring. Repealing the president’s disastrous health-care law to replace it with more effective and patient-centered solutions will remain a top GOP priority.

In addition, Republicans should seize the moment and finally tackle the anvil hanging over the country’s future — our debt and deficit problems. Fixing these issues will not be easy or occur overnight, but there are several areas where Republicans can work with President Obama — if he is willing to work with us.

A major component must be tax reform. There is a bipartisan consensus on the need to reform our complicated tax code, which has grown to more than 70,000 pages of rules, costing employers time and resources. The United States has the highest corporate tax rate among developed countries, resulting in a large number of companies relocating overseas. Reforming the tax code to address the multitude of special provisions that benefit only a few will make American companies more competitive and benefit workers and families.

Other areas of potential agreement include expanding exports and new infrastructure investments. Increasing trade means access to more markets for American companies. New trade agreements combined with laws that adequately protect American employers and workers from unfair foreign trade will lead to job creation and economic opportunity. Though Republicans have differences in approach with President Obama, both sides believe there is room for compromise on meeting our country’s infrastructure needs.

Hoosiers sent me back to the Senate in 2011 to tackle the big issues we face and pass along a stronger America to the next generation. To my great frustration, Harry Reid effectively shut down the Senate during the past four years, stifling debate and blocking proposals that did not fit his narrow political agenda.

This change in leadership provides a fresh start and an opportunity to move forward much-needed measures to strengthen our security and economy. I am anxious to get to work.

https://www.indystar.com/story/opinion/2014/10/23/sen-dan-coats-take-away-americas-anti-terror-tools/17773375/

After the 9/11 attacks, the American people demanded that the intelligence community have the capability to "connect the dots" and prevent terrorist attacks. Enacting major changes that diminish the very counterterrorism tools recommended by the 9/11 Commission will make our country less safe and more vulnerable.

Unfortunately, the USA Freedom Act, sponsored by Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., would do exactly that — weaken our defenses. It would render our counterterrorism tools less agile and reliable. The remaining capability would be less responsive, if not operationally useless, at exactly the wrong time.

The Senate Intelligence Committee has a better idea. In response to public skepticism and privacy concerns, our panel produced the bipartisan FISA Improvements Act to enshrine safeguards in law for the first time, including my proposal to establish an independent inspector general at the National Security Agency.

Our bill does not end the call-records program, thus preserving an important counterterrorism tool. However, it prohibits access to phone data except under specific procedures and restrictions, and it bars the collection of content.

The bill increases privacy protections and public transparency. It mandates judicial review, limits data retention and restricts government access. The committee approved it, 11-4. It is the only measure with sufficient bipartisan support to pass Congress.

The executive branch, Congress and courts agree that bulk collection of phone records is constitutional and operated with strict oversight. Despite contrary claims, the government is barred from indiscriminately listening to our phone calls. There is no evidence to support accusations of abuse or unlawful spying on Americans.

Currently, Americans and Europeans are joining the Islamic State, the wealthiest and most brutal terrorist group in history. By exploiting the passports of Western members, ISIL-trained operatives can come to our shores far more easily than the 9/11 hijackers.

The government's interest is the most compelling imaginable: To the best of our ability, never again allow an attack on our homeland that costs innocent lives.