https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/opinion/commentary/sd-utbg-drone-testing-chao-20180620-story.html

Today, our country is on the verge of the most significant new development in aviation since the jet age — the introduction of unmanned aircraft systems, or drones, into our national airspace.

As of May 4, there were nearly 1.1 million registered drones in the United States, and more than 90,000 registered drone pilots — a job category unheard of until a few years ago. This may come as a surprise to many who think of drones primarily as a military or recreational tool.

But today, new commercial and humanitarian applications are being developed for this technology, which holds tremendous potential to save lives, speed up the delivery of goods and services and create new jobs.

That’s why on Oct. 25, 2017, the president directed the U.S. Department of Transportation to launch an Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Integration Pilot Program to test the safe operation of drones in a variety of conditions that are currently prohibited.

On May 9, the Department of Transportation announced that 10 projects from around the country had been selected from approximately 150 applications to be part of this exciting new pilot program. These 10 projects will allow local communities to test drones that fly over people, beyond line of sight of the operator and at night.

The city of San Diego is on the front lines of this innovation. I’m proud to say that the Department of Transportation is partnering with San Diego to prepare for the future by engaging with this new technology in a way that ensures safety without hampering innovation. The selected applications are as varied as the communities proposing them, including:

Using 5G and cellular networks to improve border protection capabilities here in California.

Helping the Choctaw Nation in Oklahoma improve agriculture, public safety and infrastructure inspections.

Suppressing mosquitoes to fight the spread of the Zika virus in Florida.

Emergency delivery of life-saving medical equipment in rural and urban Nevada.

Facilitating precision agricultural operations in Kansas
Inspecting pipeline in remote areas of Alaska to help safeguard the environment.

Delivering packages in Virginia and North Carolina.

The pilot program is key to keeping drone testing in the United States, so American companies are not forced to develop this technology overseas.

If we are to remain a global aviation leader, our country must create a path forward for the safe integration of drones into our national airspace.

That’s essential because our system is bigger, faster, more technologically advanced and more complex than most other nations combined.

The U.S. Departments of Transportation, Homeland Security, Justice, Defense and others have been working with industry, academia and innovators to resolve some of the obstacles holding drone technology back. Among these hurdles are concerns about safety, security and privacy.

Advisory boards and listening sessions were created to get as much input as possible, and the Department held conferences and seminars on drones to hear from a wide range of voices. And this is just the beginning. The data gathered from the UAS Integration Pilot Program will form the basis of a new regulatory framework to safely integrate drones into our national airspace.

And there’s more good news. Many of the applications not selected for the current pilot program are excellent proposals in their own right. They will still have an opportunity to proceed under current FAA rules, including with waivers as appropriate. I have asked the FAA to reach out to these other applicants in the coming weeks to discuss a path forward for their projects, as well.

Drones are a part of our aviation future, and I look forward to seeing the results in San Diego. In addition to their strong commercial potential, last year’s hurricanes and wildfires have proven that drones have real potential to save lives and help first responders.

The UAS Integration Pilot Program is an important step in preparing for this future. By developing the know-how to safely integrate drones into our airspace, our country can reap the safety and economic benefits of this technology and continue to remain a global aviation leader.

https://www.orlandosentinel.com/opinion/os-ed-i4-trump-invest-in-us-infrastrucutre-20180215-story.html

President Donald Trump has announced a bold, innovative plan for improving and investing in America’s infrastructure. The proposal is the culmination of a year-long effort between Cabinet agencies, including the Department of Transportation, with significant input from state, local, and private sector leaders. It is designed to change how infrastructure is built, financed and maintained in communities across the country.

A national discussion on how we build and fund our roads, bridges, tunnels, seaports, airports, rural infrastructure and transit systems is long overdue. As U.S. Secretary of Transportation, I’ve had countless conversations with governors and local officials across the country — including Florida Gov. Rick Scott — about strengthening America’s critical infrastructure. Florida is doing it the right way.

One project in particular is the I-4 Ultimate Project. I-4 Ultimate will help transform Central Florida by rebuilding 21 miles of interstate. From its inception in 1965, I-4 has been a vital east-west connector that cuts through Central Florida, serving as the main transportation corridor from Daytona Beach to Tampa.

I-4 Ultimate includes the addition of two new dynamic tolled Express Lanes in each direction, replacing more than 140 bridges, reconfiguring 15 major interchanges, and reconstructing the entire existing roadway. By utilizing a public-private partnership procurement method, the Florida Department of Transportation will deliver the project in seven years where standard funding options projected it would take 27 years to complete. When finished, the project is expected to decrease travel times by increasing options for commuters and visitors in central Florida.

The $2.3 billion construction project is benefiting from more than $1 billion in private financing from the concessionaire, I-4 Mobility Partners, including private bank loans, Federal TIFIA loans, and private investment. As such, the project also needs a workforce, including engineers, designers, skilled workers, as well as all that goes into supplying product and equipment along the way. This means jobs for Central Florida.

Unfortunately, Florida is the exception, not the norm. One out of every five miles of U.S. highway pavement is in poor condition. Americans spent an estimated 6.9 billion hours delayed in traffic in 2014, or 42 hours per driver. Almost 40 percent of America’s bridges are more than 50 years old.

Fortunately, the president is a builder and he is making infrastructure a priority.

President Trump’s proposal will stimulate at least $1.5 trillion in infrastructure investment, which includes a minimum of $200 billion in direct federal funding. It will include not only roads and bridges, but drinking and wastewater, energy, broadband, and veterans hospitals as well.

The guiding principles are to: 1) provide federal dollars as matching funds to incentivize infrastructure investment; 2) provide for the needs of rural communities; 3) streamline and speed up project delivery; and, 4) provide for workforce training.

The key element of the proposal is to empower decision making by State and local officials, who know best the infrastructure needs of their communities, including those in rural America. The Federal government needs to stop dictating and start listening to State and local leaders, including those who encourage private sector investment in infrastructure.

Permitting reform will eliminate duplication and enhance environmental protections by delivering infrastructure improvements in a timelier fashion. The Department of Transportation is already developing a new process to handle the reviewing of complicated, multi-agency projects to reduce permitting from ten years to two.

And as a former U.S. Secretary of Labor, I could not be more pleased that this plan also has a work-force component, to help workers access the education and skills needed to build these new projects and better prepare them to remain an active part of the American work force.

Infrastructure is the foundation of our economy, and the key to job growth and keeping our country competitive. The citizens of Florida know this. Americans know this.

President Trump’s proposal will create new jobs, strengthen our economy, and improve quality of life. It will help ensure that our country has the infrastructure needed for today and the plans for tomorrow to remain a global leader. The Administration looks forward to working with both parties in Congress to get it done.

https://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/359027-reaping-the-benefits-of-safe-drone-technology

When a Maine fire chief used his hobby drone to drop a life vest to two boys trapped by raging waters he not only saved two young lives, he demonstrated the positive potential of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS).

UAS technology, or Drones, has evolved much the same as computers, which went from room-sized machines operated by NASA to laptops and then smart phones carried around in our pockets. Not long ago, only the military flew drones—in combat zones. Today, Americans are flying many types of hobby drones and companies are increasingly using them, as well. Just as democratization of technology led to new programs, uses, and “apps” for computers, it is leading to creative new uses and innovation for drones.

This became abundantly clear in the aftermath of the hurricanes that devastated Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) worked overtime to process more than 300 authorizations for drone use in the search, rescue, and recovery efforts in the aftermath of the storms. “Drone crews” were deployed by communications and utility companies to rapidly and safely assess damage to cell phone towers, power transmission lines, pipelines, roads, and railways. Insurance adjusters discovered that drones allow for more efficient and safe property inspections, especially in flooded areas. Drones let them check roofs without climbing ladders, and make surveys faster and less expensive. 

Drones using thermal imagers are invaluable for search and rescue.  They can detect humans in total darkness, and can see through fog, smoke, and haze. Teams fighting wildfires can also use this technology to locate hidden hotspots that might burst into flame later. This flexibility helps explain why more than 300 first responder teams throughout the United States have purchased drones. In fact, a community college in Illinois has started offering a course for first responders interested in starting drone programs.

Other applications being studied include using drones for package delivery, carrying critical medical supplies to remote or inaccessible areas, assisting agriculture, or even aero taxis capable of carrying passengers.  The possibilities are endless. Unfortunately, because our current regulatory environment is perceived as overly restrictive, much drone innovation is happening overseas — in Japan, Australia, and Great Britain. This could shortchange America’s economy and workers. Utilizing drones in our nation’s airspace could add $80 billion to our economy and create 100,000 jobs in the next decade, according to a recent report by the Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems International.

All this is about to change. To facilitate innovation in drone applications and their safe integration into our nation's airspace, this administration has launched an initiative to allow state, local, or tribal leaders to partner with drone operators to test and deploy drone operations that currently require special authorizations. The goal is to safely expand cutting-edge drone unmanned aircraft operations and test "beyond visual line of sight" flights, night operations, flights over people, and many other applications.  This three-year pilot program will be conducted by the Department of Transportation, with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) oversight. Among the benefits will be the data, experience, and best practices gained from the program. This will help the Department and the FAA develop rules that will allow our society to benefit more fully from the evolution in drone technology while continuing to address concerns over safety, security, and privacy.

Earlier this year, I attended an event in North Dakota that focused on drone technology, in which local authorities provided a welcoming environment for drone operations. The administration’s new Drone Integration Pilot Program seeks to encourage this spirit of partnership and innovation.

American ingenuity and innovation are two of our country’s greatest strengths. This pilot program will help ensure that Americans reap the benefits of safe drone technology, and that our country retains its place as an aviation pioneer and technology leader.

https://www.heritage.org/global-politics/commentary/anti-trade-agenda-real-economy-killer

The news media devoted considerable attention in the last election to the allegedly false patriotism of American flag lapel pins. Americans would be well-served in 2009 if more press coverage was devoted to exposing the folly, and false patriotism, of trade protectionism.

We have been down this road before. The Tariff Act of 1930, sponsored by Sens. Reed Smoot and Willis C. Hawley, is infamous for deepening and prolonging the Great Depression. When the Smoot-Hawley bill landed on President Herbert Hoover's desk, more than 1,000 economists urged him to veto it. Tragically, the president ignored their pleas. Other nations retaliated, and America learned a painful lesson.

By 1932, U.S. exports to Europe were just one-third of what they had been in 1929. The precipitous drop claimed many jobs, contributing to the economic misery that saw the U.S. unemployment rate soar to 25.1 percent in 1933 from 7.8 percent in 1930. Americans did not suffer alone. World trade overall fell two-thirds in the first few years of the Depression.

Today it is apparent that some in Washington have forgotten that history or never bothered to learn it. Lawmakers at home, as well as abroad, are embracing protectionism for the 21st Century that threatens to make an already severe economic crisis even worse.

The World Bank recently reported that, since the beginning of the current economic crisis, countries around the world have enacted 47 measures that restrict trade at the expense of other nations. These instigators include the United States and 16 fellow members of the G-20 whosigned a pledge just four months ago to eschew protectionist measures.

In Washington, architects of the stimulus bill -- officially titled the American Recovery and Investment Act of 2009 -- blithely ignored the Great Depression's teaching that trade protectionism is a sure economic loser. Thankfully, the protectionist provisions in the stimulus bill signed by President Barack Obama are not on the disastrous scale of those approved by Hoover. But they are not inconsequential. They sent a damaging message to the rest of the world, prompted warnings from America's trading partners and further eroded confidence here at home among those who know that retreating from free trade will further imperil America's economy.

The "Buy America" provision ("Dig a moat around America") in the stimulus package did more than squander America's credibility on international trade. It also created bureaucratic hoops that will slow down spending the stimulus funds on projects that are supposed to energize our economy. Indeed, law firms are counseling contractors and subcontractors to carefully vet their supply chain. One advises: "establish auditable record-keeping and compliance measures, particularly with respect to imported products." The more complicated the contracting process becomes, the less interest small-business owners will have in participating and the more difficult that participation becomes. That will severely dampen the stimulative power of the funds, as small business is the engine that creates two-thirds of net new jobs in this country.

An even more blunderbuss exercise in protectionism was inserted into the 2009 omnibus appropriations bill, signed into law March 11. That protectionist provision, lobbied for by the Teamsters union, targeted Mexican trucks that had been allowed to haul freight as part of an effort to bring the U.S. into conformance with the North American Free trade Agreement.

Mexico, the United States' third-biggest trading partner, wasted no time in responding in-kind. Our neighbors to the south promptly announced new tariffs on 90 American products -- including fruits and vegetables, processed foods, Christmas trees and an assortment of manufactured goods.

While this salvo is not a huge blow to our entire economy, it will severely affect the targeted sectors and is emblematic of the fact that America's own protectionist impulses do not occur in a vacuum. Other countries can, and will, retaliate.

In the lead-up to the recent G-20 summit in London, a letter from Obama appeared in 30 newspapers around the world, including the Chicago Tribune. It wisely stated: "As we go forward, we should embrace a collective commitment to encourage open trade and investment, while resisting the protectionism that would deepen this crisis." The president must square his deeds with his words. If he does not stand up to the protectionist inclinations in his own party, America's economy will only deteriorate further.