http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1805/09/cnr.04.html

I don't know if I was aware of all of those, but I knew there were -- there was disagreement about the issue of the tapes outside the agency and that is why we were working toward a meeting with the then director to talk about those issues and how we address those concerns of people outside the agency. So I was working toward resolution within a process. 
as we sit here today, and with some distance between us and the events of 9/11, the Congress and indeed our nation have had an opportunity to have a debate about the interrogation standards we want to use as the United States of America. We have decided to hold ourselves to a stricter moral standard. For DOD that is defined in the army field manual. 
I support the United States holding itself to that stricter moral standard and I support the army field manual. 
my father's watching today. He served 33 years in
the Air Force. My parents gave me a very strong moral compass. I support the higher moral standard that this country has decided to hold itself to. 
I would never, ever take CIA back to an interrogation program. First of all, CIA follows the law. We followed the law then. We follow the law today. I support the law. I wouldn't support a change in the law, but I'll tell you this, I would not put CIA officers at risk by asking them to undertake risky, controversial activity again. 
Senator -- 
My moral compass is strong. I would not allow CIA to undertake activity that I thought was immoral, even if it was technically legal. I would absolutely not permit it. 
No. I believe that CIA must undertake activities that are consistent with American values. America is looked at all over the world as an example to everyone else in the world and we have to uphold that and CIA is included in that. 
I remember. 
Thank you for that question, Senator. I think it's a very important question. When Mike Pompeo and I took the reins at Langley about 15 months ago we decided to concentrate on four initiatives, and one of those is partnership and it involves two areas. First, our partnership with the other IC partners in the U.S.
government, but even more broadly than that. There are many important partnerships for CIA, and as you say, those partnerships are critical because it's a complex world. There is no more important partnership than the one between CIA and DOD. 
I have had the absolute honor and privilege to sit at the table with Secretary Mattis and General Dunford these last 15 months, and to work with the JSOC commanders and the other combatant commanders. I don't think that very important relationship has ever been in a better place. 
Likewise, NSA is our sister agency. We are very close, and of course, our relationship with the Federal Bureau of Investigation is critical for the national security of this country, but you mentioned something else that's important, and it's a bit of an unheralded story. 
Good morning, Miss Feinstein. 
I am so pleased you asked me that question. 
No. And for the record, if you have your staff check, Mr.
Rizzo has issued a correction. It is true that it is hard for -- 
That is not accurate. 
No. He issued a correction. When people write books -- I didn't read Mr. Rizzo's books, so I didn't even know that was out there. Mr. Rizzo, and actually I read about it in "The Washington Post" last night. Eric Wimpel, I believe, wrote a story, talking about the failure to -- of certain organizations to correct their facts and that was one of them, and he noted that Mr. Rizzo about 10 days ago, he was wrong. He didn't fact check and that has been corrected. I would never even served in that department nor was I the head of it. 
I did not run the interrogation department. In fact, I was not even read into the interrogation program until it had been up and running for a year. I never served -- 
I absolutely was an advocate if we could within and conforming to U.S. law and if we could get policy concurrence to eliminate the security risk posed to our officers by those tapes and we can -- 
No. I never watched the tapes, but I understood -- 
-- that our officers' faces were on them and that was very dangerous at a time when there were unauthorized disclosures that were exposing the program. 
No. The tapes were recordings of only one detainee. It was 92 tapes of one detainee.
anything about my classified assignment history throughout my 33 years we can talk about in this afternoon's classified session. There are guidelines on, as you know, existing classification guidelines and I should go back to your first point which was very, very important about why we haven't declassified more about my history. 
There are existing classification guidelines that apply to operational activity of any officer. It has been suggested to me by my team that if we tried to declassify some of my operational history it would help my nomination. I said that we could not do that. It is very important that the director of the Central Intelligence Agency adhere to the same classification guidelines that all employees must adhere to because there are very good reason for those classification guidelines. 
Exposing operational information can be damaging to sources and methods, as you know, but there is also a physical risk to officers who go out to the far ends of the globe and conduct dangerous missions and they believe that their participation in those dangerous missions will be protected. It would be a security risk if we started declassifying associations between CIA officers and particular terrorists or terrorist operations.
So I am adhering to the existing guidelines and I believe that it is important and that I could not stand before the CIA if I sought for short-term gain to declassify my operational history. 
thank you for that question. One of the first things Mike Pompeo and I looked at when I returned to the agency from overseas in early 2017 is how we're doing on the hard targets. That's what you're talking about, China, Iran, Russia, North Korea. 
Well, Senator, as I mentioned I don't even have a social media account, but I wouldn't use Huawei products. 
just to be clear, the request for the declassification of the Morel memo was in response to a member on this committee. I've not read the Durham report and I don't know the classification. So let me take that for the record, if I may. 
Well, I haven't seen it, so I haven't read it. So I don't know. 
I think like all of us who were in the counterterrorism center and working at CIA and those years after 9/11, we all believed in our work. We were committed, we had been charged with making sure the country wasn't attacked again, and we had been informed that the techniques in CIA's program were legal and authorized by the highest legal authority in our country and also the president. 
So I believe I and my colleagues in the counterterrorism center were working as hard as we could with the tools that we were given to make sure that we were successful in our mission. 
may I just say that I haven't -- I don't know which "Washington Post" story you're referring to, but let me say this about myself. After 9/11 I didn't look to go sit on the Swiss desk. I stepped up. I was not on the sidelines. I was on the front lines in the Cold War and I was on the front lines in the fight against al Qaeda. 
I am very proud of the fact that we captured the perpetrator of 9/11 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. I think we did extraordinary work. To me, the tragedy is that the controversy surrounding the interrogation program which as I've already indicated to Senator Warner, I fully understand that, but it has cast a shadow over what has been a major contribution to protecting this country. 
as chief of staff, it's a desk-bound job so I was at my desk at least 12 hours every day and I can see my computer screen so it was shortly after Mr. Rodriguez who sat right across the hall from me had released the cable. 
I was not, and I was not read into the program until about a year into its existence.
No. I had just returned from an overseas posting. I was a GS-15. I was not yet a member of the senior executive service. I was assigned as a deputy group chief. That's pretty far down the totem pole in a program that had nothing to do with the detention and interrogation program.
it was a new subject for me. We -- as I said, we lacked interrogation expertise at the agency. We didn't have interrogators. I was told that interrogation expert had designed the program, that the highest legal authority in the United States had approved it, and that the president of the United States had approved it as well as a trusted leadership at the Central Intelligence Agency.

https://www.cia.gov/news-information/speeches-testimony/2018-speeches-testimony/remarks-for-central-intelligence-agency-director-gina-haspel-mcconnell-center-at-the-university-of-louisville.html

It’s a rare pleasure to be back home in Kentucky, and truly a privilege to be back on this campus. I want to thank Senator McConnell and President Bendapudi for the gracious invitation, and I want to thank all of you for being here today and for taking an interest in our nation’s security and in the role CIA plays in protecting our country.

In the interest of full disclosure, and as Senator McConnell mentioned, I should tell you that my college years weren’t spent entirely in Louisville. Like Senator McConnell, I spent some of my time in college at a well-known university over in central Kentucky. But after finishing my junior year, the bright lights of this beautiful city beckoned, and I finished my degree as a Cardinal. Proudly so.

Because I am a proud Kentuckian and a proud U of L graduate, it is very special for me to be with you all today. I look forward to speaking with Scott Jennings a little later. Before I do, I’d like to offer some brief remarks about the remarkable organization I am honored to lead: the Central Intelligence Agency.

Over the summer, we hosted a special guest at Langley. Daniel Craig was kind enough to visit CIA Headquarters to talk about playing James Bond and how it compares to the real world of espionage.

And yes—he parked his red Aston Martin right in front of our main lobby. Which raises a couple of big contrasts between real-world espionage and the Hollywood version.

First, if you’re an undercover officer endeavoring not to be noticed, a red Aston Martin probably is not the best way to go. I’d go with a beige Hyundai.

Second, the average CIA officer can only dream of parking right in front of the main lobby. I can’t even do that!

But whatever the real CIA lacks in Hollywood glamour, it more than makes up for it in job satisfaction. Service at CIA is the opportunity to be part of something bigger than yourself—to serve your country in a meaningful and compelling way. As one of my favorite former Directors, George Tenet, used to say, CIA doesn’t do easy. The hard jobs come to us. CIA officers take on the toughest assignments—at some risk—for the sake of our nation.

From my first days in the nation’s Clandestine Service and my first overseas assignment in Africa, the meaning of our work was clear to me. My training prepared me well for a moonless night in a remote and desolate place, when I conducted my first meeting with a foreign agent.

He passed me intelligence of great value to our government, and I passed him a little extra money for the men he led. It was the beginning of an adventure I could only have dreamed of as a kid. Now that I think about it, that night was the stuff of movies.

It’s fair to say that CIA back then in the late 80s and 90s was a thoroughly male-dominated organization. But I was lucky to have bosses who were willing to take a chance on me.

One of them was a tough, old-school mandarin who picked me to serve as Chief of Station at a small but crucial frontier post. After my appointment was announced, a couple of guys who had been in the running for the job weren’t very pleased. One even told me to my face that he couldn’t believe, couldn’t understand why I—a woman—was chosen to go to a place like that.

While I could have done without the many long nights I spent sleeping on the floor of that small station, that assignment surpassed even the imaginings of a Hollywood screenwriter. I was proud of the fact that we captured two major terrorists, and conducted a counterproliferation operation against a nation state bad actor that went our way.

I managed to do well as an operations officer, and I did what I could to help bring down some of the barriers that I had faced. I’m also proud of a lot of other women who have risen through the ranks, especially since the 9/11 attacks. The Agency really has become a better place to work for all its officers over the years, even though, like others, we still have a way to go.

So it should come as no surprise that one of my top priorities since becoming Director has been to champion diversity and inclusion at CIA. Our global mission at CIA demands that we recruit and retain America’s best and brightest, regardless of gender, race, or cultural background. And I want every officer to have equal opportunities to succeed.

Another strategic priority is to invest more heavily in collecting against the hardest issues. Our efforts against these difficult intelligence gaps have been overshadowed over the years by the Intelligence Community’s justifiably heavy emphasis on counterterrorism in the wake of 9/11. Groups such as the so-called Islamic State and al-Qa‘ida remain squarely in our sights, but we are sharpening our focus on nation-state adversaries.

Closely related to the renewed emphasis on raising our investment against the most strategic intelligence gaps is our push to steadily increase the number of officers stationed overseas. That’s where our mission—as a foreign intelligence agency—lies, and having a larger foreign footprint allows for a more robust posture.

We’re also investing in foreign-language excellence as a core attribute for our officers. We’re strengthening our language training to ensure that our people are more capable and better attuned to the cultures in which they operate.

By the way, I recall very fondly first-class French literature classes at University of Louisville.

And we’re building stronger partnerships at CIA—not only with our sister agencies across the IC, but with our foreign counterparts as well. Teamwork is the only effective way of dealing with the range of complex threats we face across the globe, and CIA is working more closely than ever with our allies across the world.

Finally, no foreign challenge has had a more direct and devastating impact on American families and communities—including right here in Kentucky—than the flow of opioids and other drugs into our country. That’s why CIA is going to invest more heavily in our counternarcotics effort abroad to combat this terrible threat—one that has killed far more Americans than any terrorist group ever has.

In the lobby of our Headquarters building in Langley, Virginia, there’s an inscription from the Book of John: “And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.”

It’s a reference to CIA’s core mission: collecting the most accurate and timely intelligence to help policymakers protect our country and advance American interests around the world.

Finding the truth means operating against despotic governments and terrorist groups that fiercely and violently guard their secrets. It’s complicated, risky work.

But as I said, we don’t do easy. The hard jobs come to CIA.

Within the Intelligence Community, CIA is the keeper of the human intelligence mission. Technical forms of collection are vital, but a good human source is unique and can deliver decisive intelligence on our adversaries’ secrets—even their intent.

CIA is also the lead agency for all-source intelligence analysis—the assessments drafted by our analysts based on classified and open-source information. Much of the President’s Daily Brief consists of CIA collection and analysis.

And very often, the President relies on us to act as America’s first line of defense. We’re “first in”—collecting intelligence, moving ahead of the military, going where others can’t go, and doing things that no one else can. These are the sort of activities that fall under the heading of covert action.

Our work requires secrecy, and secrecy in turn requires a profound degree of trust from the American people. Nothing is more important to those of us at CIA than our obligation to earn the trust of our fellow citizens.

That’s why our Agency abides by and embraces an oversight structure that includes the Congressional intelligence committees, the FISA court, and our own independent Inspector General. There’s not another major intelligence agency in the world subject to oversight authority as comprehensive as our own, but that’s as it should be.

It’s what makes us accountable to the open society we serve. It’s what makes us an American intelligence service.

In carrying out every aspect of our work, CIA officers are guided by a professional ethos that is the sum of our abiding principles, core values, and highest aspirations. These include service, integrity, excellence, courage, teamwork, and stewardship.

Sacrifice, too, is an inescapable part of our mission. One hundred and twenty-nine men and women at CIA have died in the line of duty since our founding in 1947.

My first boss in the field was killed in 1993 after volunteering for an assignment in a very dangerous and unstable place. He was brilliant, witty, and courageous—a lovely man who always wore cowboy boots and spoke excellent Russian and Turkish.

He was an inspiration to me and to everyone who served with him, and I think of him frequently.

Of the 129 heroes represented by a star on our Memorial Wall at our Headquarters, 42 have perished since September 11th, 2001. The vast majority of them were lost fighting the long war against al-Qa‘ida.

They include Johnny Micheal Spann, a brave former Marine and the first American to die in the line of duty in Afghanistan. They also include a dear friend of mine, a devoted wife and mother of three who was one of our greatest al-Qa‘ida experts. She was utterly determined to pursue the terrorists who attacked our country—even if it meant putting herself in harm’s way.

People often ask CIA Directors what keeps them up at night. Between rogue WMD programs, cyber threats, terrorist organizations, great power rivalries, and other global threats, there’s bound to be more than a single reason I’m losing sleep on any given night. But I’d like to share with you a story I keep in mind when things get tough.

I served in Africa early in my career, and one day a group of us—largely diplomats—set out to climb Mount Kilimanjaro. Our guide was a wonderful man, a diplomat himself, who had been born at the base of the mountain. His approach was simple—three days up, two days down.

As we made our way up the mountain, we were passed by a group of security officials from a third country who clearly hadn’t done their homework. They were in their prime but overconfident and ascending far too quickly. In the end, they had to be stretchered off the mountain.

But our guide prepared us well for the journey. As we moved up in altitude, he would say again and again in Swahili: “po’le, po’le”—slowly, slowly. Following his advice, many of us made it to the summit safely.

The view was unforgettable. I will never forget the leadership example of our guide. While others tried to make their way up with brute force, he showed us there is no substitute for patience and expertise.

“Po’le, po’le.” I try to remember those words when faced with a difficult challenge. They remind me that in every pursuit, the tough climbs take patience, courage, creativity, and relentless determination.

CIA officers have those qualities in abundance. I couldn’t be prouder to lead them.

And for those of you who aspire to serve your country, take it from your fellow Kentuckian: Prepare yourself with a good education—and don’t do easy. Raise your hand when the hard jobs come to you.

That alone will take you most of the way to the top.

Thank you all very much.

https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/os-ghaspel-050918.pdf

Chairman Burr, Vice Chairman Warner, members of the committee: Thank you for the
opportunity to appear before you today. I am here because I have been nominated to lead the
extraordinary men and women at the Central Intelligence Agency – men and women who are our
country’s silent warriors. These dedicated professionals spend much of their careers in difficult,
far-flung outposts of the globe, striving to make our fellow Americans more secure at home. It
has been the privilege of my professional life to be one of those CIA officers.
Now, I have been asked by President Trump to lead this workforce and to continue the work that
Mike Pompeo and I began a little more than a year ago: ensuring that CIA is postured to meet the
complex challenges our nation faces. Those challenges include a changing but still lethal threat
from terrorist groups; a nuclear threat against the continental United States from a rogue state;
destabilizing Iranian adventurism; an aggressive and sometimes brutal Russia; and the long-term
implications of China’s ambitions on the global stage.
While these challenges are daunting and offer few easy answers, I am confident the United States
and the American people have the resolve to meet them head on. If I am confirmed as Director,
you have my solemn commitment that I will position this Agency to provide the intelligence
support our country needs to meet the challenges of today, and those of the future.
I welcome the opportunity to introduce myself to the American people for the first time – it is a
new experience for me as I spent over 30 years under cover and in the shadows. I don’t have any
social media accounts, but otherwise I think you will find me to be a typical middle class
American – one with a strong sense of right and wrong and one who loves this country.
I was born in Kentucky, and while my family has deep roots there, I was an Air Force “brat” and
followed my father to postings all over the world. My childhood overseas instilled in me an
appreciation for foreign languages and cultures, but also a deep understanding of the vital role of
American leadership in confronting aggression abroad.
I joined the CIA in 1985 as an operations officer in the Clandestine Service. From my first days
in training, I had a knack for the nuts and bolts of my profession. I excelled in finding and
acquiring secret information that I obtained in brush passes, dead drops, or in meetings in dusty
back allies of third world capitals. I recall my first foreign agent meeting was on a dark,
moonless night with an agent I’d never met before. When I picked him up, he passed me the
intelligence and I passed him extra money for the men he led. It was the beginning of an
adventure I had only dreamed of.
The men who ran CIA in those days leaned forward in giving me the right opportunities to
succeed or fail. When a very tough, old school leader announced that I was his pick to be Chief 
of Station in a small but important frontier post, a few competitors complained to me directly
“why would they send you?” I owe that leader much for believing in me at a time when few
women were given these opportunities. While I could have done without the long nights,
sleeping on the floor of my station, I was proud of the work we did there including the successful
capture of two major terrorists, a counterproliferation operation that went our way, and the
dismantlement of a local terrorist cell.
Altogether, I have served seven tours in the field—four as Chief of Station—including hardship
assignments in distant posts and, more recently, in the capital of a major US ally.
By any standard, my life at the Agency – and it has been my life – has exceeded all of my
expectations, from that January day when I took my oath to today. There were few senior women
leading at CIA in those days, and we are stronger now because that picture is changing. I did my
part – quietly and through hard work – to break down those barriers. And I was proud to be the
first woman to serve as the number-two in the Clandestine Service. It is not my way to trumpet
the fact that I am a woman up for the top job, but I would be remiss in not remarking on it – not
least because of the outpouring of support from young women at CIA who consider it a good
sign for their own prospects.
My experience and success as an operations officer led to three leadership positions in the
Clandestine Service, and one year ago, I was asked to serve as Deputy Director of CIA. The
reaction of the workforce to a rare nomination of one of their own to be Director – someone who
has been in the trenches with them – has been overwhelming. I am humbled by their confidence
that I can successfully lead this Agency and inspired to work harder than ever to maintain that
mutual trust.
They know that I don’t need time to learn the business of what CIA does. I know CIA like the
back of my hand. I know them, I know the threats we face, and I know what we need to be
successful in our mission.
I have played a leading role this past year in setting us on the right path and I intend on
continuing on that path if I am confirmed as Director.
Our strategy starts with strengthening our core business: collecting intelligence to help
policymakers protect our country and advance American interests around the globe. It includes
raising our investment against the most difficult intelligence gaps, putting more officers in the
foreign field where our adversaries are, and emphasizing foreign language excellence. And,
finally, it involves investing in our partnerships – both within the US Government and around the
globe.
We must do everything we can to follow through on these investments and to make CIA as
effective as it can possibly be, because the American people deserve no less than CIA’s best
effort.
This is especially true when it comes to confronting threats from North Korea, Iran, Russia, and
China. Today, CIA officers are deployed across the globe, sometimes at significant personal 
risk, collecting critical human and technical intelligence. I have spent my entire career driving
operations and, if confirmed, I will be able to leverage that experience against these hard targets
beginning on day one.
I knew that accepting the president’s nomination would raise questions about CIA classified
activities and my career at the Agency. I also understand that it is important for the American
people to get to know me so they are able to judge my fitness for this position. So over the last
few weeks, we have leaned forward to make more information about my professional record
public. We have also shared details on every aspect of my career through classified channels
with this Committee, as well as with the rest of the Senate.
I think it is important to recall the context of those challenging times immediately following
9/11. For me, I had just returned to Washington from an overseas posting and I reported for duty
the morning of 9/11. I knew in my gut when I saw the video of the first plane hitting the Tower
in Manhattan that it was Bin Ladin. I got up from my desk and, like many others, walked over to
the Counterterrorism Center and volunteered to help. I didn’t leave for three years. We worked
seven days a week, and I even had friends who postponed weddings and having babies. The men
and women of CIA were driven to prevent another attack. The first boots on the ground in
Afghanistan were my colleagues. The first U.S. casualty in Afghanistan was a CIA officer and it
was CIA who identified and captured the mastermind of 9/11 in a brilliant operation. I am proud
of our work during that time. The hard lessons we learned from that experience inform my
leadership of CIA today.
In light of my counterterrorism experience, I understand that what many people around the
country want to know about are my views on CIA’s former detention and interrogation program.
I have views on this issue, and I want to be clear. Having served in that tumultuous time, I can
offer you my personal commitment, clearly and without reservation, that under my leadership
CIA will not restart such a detention and interrogation program.
CIA has learned some tough lessons, especially when asked to tackle missions that fall outside
our expertise. For me, there is no better example of implementing lessons learned than what the
Agency took away from the detention and interrogation program. In retrospect it is clear, as the
SSCI Majority Report concludes, that CIA was not prepared to conduct a detention and
interrogation program.
Today, the US Government has a clear legal and policy framework that governs detentions and
interrogations. Specifically, the law provides that no individual in US custody may be subjected
to any interrogation technique or approach that is not authorized by and listed in the Army Field
Manual. I fully support the standards for detainee treatment required by law, and just as
importantly, I will keep CIA focused on our collection and analysis missions that can best
leverage the expertise found at the Agency.
Like I said, we learned important lessons following 9/11. As both a career intelligence officer
and an American citizen, I am a strong believer in the importance of oversight. Simply put,
experience has taught us that CIA cannot be effective without the people’s trust. And we cannot
hope to earn that trust without the accountability that comes with Congressional oversight.
If we can’t share aspects of our secret work with the public, we should do so with their elected
representatives. For CIA, oversight is a vital link to the open society we defend. It’s a defining
feature of the US Intelligence Community, and one of the many things that distinguishes us from
the hostile services we face in the field.
If confirmed as Director, I will uphold the Agency’s obligations to Congress and ensure that
oversight works on behalf of the American people.
Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you and the Committee for the hard work that is put into the
oversight process, and for the vital support that you provide to my fellow officers.
CIA has given a lot to me over the past three decades—a calling in service to my country, some
real-life adventures, and the profound satisfaction of serving with some of the most talented and
honorable men and women anyone could ever meet.
If confirmed, I hope to repay the debt I owe to this remarkable Agency by drawing on my
experience. I know what my fellow officers need from me and, I know what our nation needs
from CIA—truth, integrity, and courage.
Again, thank you for allowing me the opportunity to sit before you today, and I look forward to
your questions.