https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2018/08/13/how-law-enforcement-taking-action-opioid-crisis/U0n2dzE7ICJdnL1domMo7J/story.html

ERNIE PATERNO was a teacher at the Maine College of Art. He was known around Portland as a skilled glassblower and bass guitar player.

Ernie was given an opioid medication to treat a painful kidney stone, and he became addicted.

He was never the same again.

He tried to fight the addiction. At one point, Ernie entered a treatment program, but he relapsed.

In 2016, he overdosed and died in his studio, leaving behind a beloved wife and a beautiful 5-year-old daughter.

Unfortunately, there are many tragic stories like Ernie’s in America today.

The latest statistics suggest that approximately 72,000 Americans lost their lives to drug overdoses in 2017. Nearly 30,000 of those deaths were attributable to fentanyl — a 50 percent increase from 2016.

That’s nearly the population of Portland, dead in one year just from overdoses.

With an overdose rate well above the national average, Maine is in the top 10 states in the Union for drug overdose deaths.

Cumberland County — home to Portland and to Ernie Paterno — is especially hard hit. According to a report from the attorney general of Maine, overdose death rates in Cumberland County increased 74 percent from 2014 to 2016. In 2017, 109 Mainers died of overdoses in Cumberland County.

Fortunately, President Donald J. Trump has a comprehensive plan to end this national crisis by bolstering treatment, educating the public about addiction, and revamping our law enforcement efforts against drug traffickers who propagate this catastrophe. He has negotiated and signed bipartisan legislation to spend $4 billion this year to address opioid abuse. He has launched a national awareness campaign about the dangers of opioid abuse. And he has set the ambitious goal of reducing opioid prescription rates in America by one-third in three years.

Law enforcement plays a key role in his plan — and for good reason. By putting traffickers and crooked doctors and pharmacists behind bars — going after the distributors, not the users suffering from addiction — we prevent the criminals from committing more crimes and spreading addiction. That saves lives.

One example of how law enforcement saves lives can be seen in Manatee County, Fla.

Like many parts of this country, Manatee County experienced massive increases in opioid deaths in 2015 and 2016.

In response, federal prosecutors began prosecuting illicit synthetic opioid sales, regardless of the amount of drugs involved, taking 45 synthetic opioid traffickers off the streets. Deaths started to go down.

From the last six months of 2016 to the last six months of 2017, overdose deaths dropped by 70 percent in Manatee County. The Manatee County Sheriff’s Office went from responding to 11 overdoses a day to an average of one a day.

These are remarkable results. I believe that many other parts of the country — like Portland — need solutions like this one and can benefit from this proven strategy.

That is why I have begun Operation Synthetic Opioids Surge (SOS).

Under Operation SOS, I am ordering our prosecutors in 10 districts with some of the highest overdose death rates to prosecute every synthetic opioid trafficking case, no matter how small.

That includes Cumberland County.

Across these districts, federal law enforcement will work together so that we find more leads, make connections between the cases we prosecute, and work our way up the supply chain to get the cartels and kingpins.

To help carry out these orders, I am sending in reinforcements.

In June, I sent more than 300 new assistant US attorneys to districts across America, including one to Maine. It was the largest prosecutor surge in decades.

Now I am sending another new prosecutor to each of these 10 districts, where we will implement the Manatee County strategy. Having served as a federal prosecutor for 14 years, I know what a difference that can make.

In early July, I met with our prosecutors in New Hampshire and Maine. They are motivated to implement this new strategy and to work with new partners.

Some other people — mostly politicians trying to score a few points — say they don’t like this strategy. They don’t think we should prosecute all drug traffickers, but let some of them go free.

That is their opinion. But unfortunately, they have spread the misinformation that we are prosecuting drug users, not just traffickers. As I have said many times, this is factually incorrect. The critics are entitled to their own opinions, but they’re not entitled to misrepresent the facts.

In spite of the misinformation out there, I believe that what worked in Florida can work in Maine. It is worth the effort to find out. We are going to continue to be more aggressive and to go on offense against drug traffickers, so that they cannot spread death and addiction in Maine anymore.

https://www.tampabay.com/article/20180806/ARTICLE/308069564

The United States is facing the deadliest drug crisis in American history. The latest statistics suggest that approximately 72,000 Americans lost their lives to drug overdoses in 2017 — the highest drug death toll in a single year and the fastest single-year increase in that death toll in American history.

Meanwhile, millions of Americans are living with the consequences of a family member’s addiction or an addiction of their own. It is incredible but true that drug overdoses are now the leading cause of accidental death.

Sadly, Florida knows the consequences of this crisis all too well.

Drug overdose deaths increased 47 percent statewide from 2015 to 2016, compared to 21 percent nationwide. In just one year, we lost nearly 2,800 Floridians to overdoses involving opioids – an increase of nearly 1,000 deaths.

And as we all know, these are not numbers—these are moms, dads, daughters, spouses, friends and neighbors.

For example, remember that around 2 a.m. on New Year’s Day 2017, a man and a woman were found dead outside their car on Interstate 4 near Daytona Beach. Their three sons — ages 2, 1, and less than a year old – sat in the back seat, crying. The couple had overdosed on illicitly made fentanyl.

Unfortunately, there are many more tragic stories like this in America today.

But we at the Department of Justice are not going to accept the status quo. Ending the drug crisis is a top priority of President Donald Trump and his administration.

President Trump has a comprehensive plan to end this national crisis. He has negotiated and signed bipartisan legislation to spend $4 billion this year to address opioid abuse. He has launched a national awareness campaign about the dangers of opioid abuse. And he has set the ambitious goal of reducing opioid prescription rates in America by one-third in three years.

Prevention and treatment are two critical elements in stopping this crisis of addiction.

Law enforcement is a critical pillar of President Trump’s Opioids Plan. By putting crooked traffickers and crooked doctors, pharmacists, manufacturers, and distributors behind bars — going after the suppliers, not the users suffering from drug addiction — we prevent those criminals from committing more crimes and spreading addiction. That saves lives.

One example of how law enforcement saves lives can be seen in Manatee County.

Like many parts of this country, Manatee County experienced massive increases in opioid deaths in 2015 and 2016.

In response, federal prosecutors began prosecuting synthetic opioid sales, regardless of the amount of drugs involved, resulting in 45 prosecutions. Deaths started to go down.

From the last six months of 2016 to the last six months of 2017, overdose deaths dropped by 70 percent in Manatee County. The Manatee County Sheriff’s Office went from responding to 11 overdoses a day to an average of one a day.

These are remarkable results. I believe that many other parts of the country—where the drug epidemic is at its worst—need solutions like this one and can benefit from this proven strategy.

That is why I have begun Operation Synthetic Opioids Surge.

Under Operation SOS, I am ordering our prosecutors in 10 districts with some of the highest overdose death rates to prosecute every case of illicit synthetic opioid distribution—no matter how small.

When it comes to synthetic opioids, there is no such thing as a small case. Three milligrams of fentanyl can be fatal. That’s equivalent to a pinch of salt. It’s not even enough to cover Lincoln’s face on a penny. Depending on the purity, you could fit more than 1,000 fatal doses of fentanyl in a teaspoon.

I understand that this more aggressive posture will require a lot more work for prosecutors, who are already dealing with an unprecedented epidemic. That is why, as they implement this effective strategy, I am sending them reinforcements.

Last month, I sent more than 300 new assistant U.S. attorneys to districts across America. It was the largest prosecutor surge in decades.

Now I am sending another new prosecutor to each of these 10 districts where we will implement the Manatee County strategy. Having served as a federal prosecutor for 14 years, I know what a difference that can make.

The people of Florida should be grateful for the outstanding service of law enforcement officers in Manatee County. They are a great example of how law enforcement can make a big difference in a short period of time.

I believe that, along with the Trump administration’s other law enforcement and public health efforts, Operation SOS will weaken drug distribution networks, reduce illicit fentanyl availability and save lives.

https://www.dailysignal.com/2018/07/30/sessions-this-department-of-justice-is-going-to-court-across-america-to-defend-the-rights-of-people-of-faith/

Let us be frank.

A dangerous movement, undetected by many, is now challenging and eroding our great tradition of religious freedom. There can be no doubt. This is no little matter. It must be confronted and defeated.

This election, and much that has flowed from it, gives us a rare opportunity to arrest these trends. Such a reversal will not just be done with electoral victories, but by intellectual victories.

We have gotten to the point where courts have held that morality cannot be a basis for law; where ministers are fearful to affirm, as they understand it, holy writ from the pulpit; and where one group can actively target religious groups by labeling them a “hate group” on the basis of their sincerely held religious beliefs.

This president and this Department of Justice are determined to protect and even advance this magnificent heritage.

Freedom of religious is indeed our “first freedom”—being the first listed right of our First Amendment. This has been a core American principle from the beginning.

It is one of the reasons that this country was settled in the first place. The promise of freedom of conscience brought the Pilgrims to Plymouth, the Catholics to Maryland, the Quakers to Pennsylvania, the Scot-Presbyterians to the middle colonies, and Roger Williams to Rhode Island. Each one of these groups and others knew what it was like to be hated, persecuted, outnumbered, and discriminated against. Each one knew what it was like to have a majority try to force them to deny their natural right to practice the faith they held dear.

Our Founders gave religious expression a double protection in the First Amendment. Not only do we possess freedom to exercise our beliefs but we also enjoy the freedom of speech.

Our Founders’ understanding of and commitment to religious freedom was truly brilliant as well as historic.

It arose in large part from the principles delineated in the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom—and its effective advocates: Madison and Jefferson. These guys were ferocious. This weekend, I was rereading Garry Wills’ fabulous book, “Head and Heart,” in which he quotes extensively from the Jefferson’s Statute, as he refers to it. I commend all of it to you; but one line stood out in particular to me, “That almighty God hath created the mind free, and manifested His supreme will that free it shall remain, by making it altogether insusceptible of restraint.”

Of course, this is entirely consistent with another of my favorite Jefferson quotes that you will find at his memorial just across the mall from where we are today: “For I have sworn upon the altar of god eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man.” This is what our Founders believed. They clearly recognized that an individual’s relationship to God is a natural right and precedes the existence of the state, and is not subject to state control.

These concepts were placed into our Constitution and laws and formed a national consensus that has greatly militated against religious hostility and violence—and has helped us to this day to be one of the world’s most diverse religious people.

There can be no doubt that we are stronger as a nation because of the contribution of religious Americans.

Every day across America, they feed the hungry, shelter the homeless, educate our young people, and care for the sick. They do so not because the government tells them to, but because they want to. They do these things because of their faith.

Their faith provides something the state can never provide—meaning and purpose and joy in their life.

But in recent years, the cultural climate in this country—and in the West more generally—has become less hospitable to people of faith. Many Americans have felt that their freedom to practice their faith has been under attack.

And it’s easy to see why. We’ve seen nuns ordered to buy contraceptives. We’ve seen U.S. senators ask judicial and executive branch nominees about dogma—even though the Constitution explicitly forbids a religious test for public office. We’ve all seen the ordeal faced so bravely by Jack Phillips.

Americans from a wide variety of backgrounds are concerned about what this changing cultural climate means for the future of religious liberty in this country.

President Trump heard this concern.

I believe this unease is one reason that he was elected. In substance, he said he respected people of faith and he promised to protect them in the free exercise of their faith. He declared we would say “Merry Christmas” again.

The Department of Justice has settled 24 civil cases with 90 plaintiffs regarding the previous administration’s wrong application of the contraception mandate to objecting religious employers.

Last month, a district court in Colorado issued a permanent injunction in the case involving the Little Sisters of the Poor, a group of nuns who serve the elderly poor. This is a permanent injunction and a major victory for the Little Sisters of the Poor and religious freedom.

The government has no business telling the Little Sisters that they must provide an insurance policy that violates their sincere religious beliefs.

And since Day One, this administration has been delivering on that promise.

Soon after taking office, President Trump directed me to issue explicit legal guidance for all executive agencies on how to apply the religious liberty protections in federal law. Our team embraced that challenge. I issued that guidance in October, and it lays out 20 fundamental principles for the executive branch to follow.

Those include the principle that free exercise means a right to act—or to abstain from action. They include the principle that government shouldn’t impugn people’s motives or beliefs.

We don’t give up our rights when we go to work, start a business, talk about politics, or interact with the government. We don’t give up our rights when we assemble or join together. We have religious freedom as individuals and as groups. In short, we have not only the freedom to worship—but the right to exercise our faith. The Constitution’s protections don’t end at the parish parking lot nor can our freedoms be confined to our basements.

Under this administration, the federal government is not just reacting—we are actively seeking, carefully, thoughtfully, and lawfully, to accommodate people of faith. Religious Americans are no longer an afterthought.

We will take potential burdens on one’s conscience into consideration before we issue regulations or new policies.

And this Department of Justice is going to court across America to defend the rights of people of faith.

First of all, we are aggressively and appropriately enforcing our civil rights laws, our hate crimes laws, and laws protecting churches and faith groups.

Since January 2017, we have obtained 11 indictments and seven convictions in cases involving arson or other attacks or threats against houses of worship. Our Civil Rights Division has also obtained 12 indictments in other attacks or threats against people because of their religion.

And we are not slowing down.

Three weeks ago, we obtained a jury verdict against a man who set fire to a mosque in Texas and sentenced for a man from Missouri for threatening to kill members of a mosque.

In addition to protecting the safety of people of faith, we are also protecting them against unjust discrimination. In January, we filed a brief in a Montana court to defend parents who claim that the state barred their children from a private school scholarship program because they attend a religious school. We also filed an amicus brief on behalf of the Archdiocese of Washington, D.C., which was refused advertising space for having a religious message—including “joy to the world” on Merry Christmas.

And, of course, we were proud to file a brief in support of Jack Phillips.

We are taking steps to become even more effective.

In June I announced the Place to Worship Initiative. Under this initiative, the Department of Justice is holding public events across America and improving training for federal prosecutors about legal protections for houses of worship.

When I was in the Senate, we passed a law called the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, or RLUIPA. Under RLUIPA, the Department of Justice can file a civil action in court when religious groups are discriminated against in zoning laws.

Under my tenure as attorney general, we have not hesitated to use this tool when necessary. In June, we filed suit against a town in New Jersey that had refused over and over again—for eight years—to let an Orthodox Jewish congregation buy land for a synagogue. And just last week we filed a brief in federal court supporting the case of a Hindu temple in Maryland that claimed to have suffered discrimination in its attempts to purchase land.

We are going to keep going to court.  And I believe that we’re going to keep winning.

Today I am announcing our next step: the Religious Liberty Task Force, to be co-chaired by the associate attorney general and the assistant attorney general for the Office of Legal Policy—Jesse [Panuccio] and Beth [Williams].

The task force will help the department fully implement our religious liberty guidance by ensuring that all Justice Department components are upholding that guidance in the cases they bring and defend, the arguments they make in court, the policies and regulations they adopt, and how we conduct our operations. That includes making sure that our employees know their duties to accommodate people of faith.

As the people in this room know, you have to practice what you preach. We are also going to remain in contact with religious groups across America to ensure that their rights are being protected. We have been holding listening sessions and we will continue to host them in the coming weeks.

This administration is animated by that same American view that has led us for 242 years: that every American has a right to believe, worship, and exercise their faith in the public square. This approach has served this country well. We are perhaps the most religiously developed nation in the world and can take pride in respecting all people as they fully exercise their faiths.

It is clear that these policies have furthered peace, prosperity, freedom, lawfulness, and clarity.

As our nation grows order, we must not let it depart from this magnificent tradition.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/jeff-sessions-being-soft-on-sentencing-means-more-violent-crime-its-time-to-get-tough-again/2017/06/16/618ef1fe-4a19-11e7-9669-250d0b15f83b_story.html?utm_term=.17f90e374afb

Drug trafficking is an inherently violent business. If you want to collect a drug debt, you can’t, and don’t, file a lawsuit in court. You collect it by the barrel of a gun. For the approximately 52,000 Americans who died of a drug overdose in 2015, drug trafficking was a deadly business.

Yet in 2013, subject to limited exceptions, the Justice Department ordered federal prosecutors not to include in charging documents the amount of drugs being dealt when the actual amount was large enough to trigger a mandatory minimum sentence. Prosecutors were required to leave out objective facts in order to achieve sentences lighter than required by law. This was billed as an effort to curb mass incarceration of low-level offenders, but in reality it covered offenders apprehended with large quantities of dangerous drugs. The result was that federal drug prosecutions went down dramatically — from 2011 to 2016, federal prosecutions fell by 23 percent. Meanwhile, the average sentence length for a convicted federal drug offender decreased 18 percent from 2009 to 2016.

Before that policy change, the violent crime rate in the United States had fallen steadily for two decades, reaching half of what it was in 1991. Within one year after the Justice Department softened its approach to drug offenders, the trend of decreasing violent crime reversed. In 2015, the United States suffered the largest single-year increase in the overall violent crime rate since 1991.

And while defenders of the 2013 policy change point out that crime rates remain low compared with where they were 30 years ago, they neglect to recognize a disturbing trend that could reverse decades of progress: Violent crime is rising across the country. According to data from the FBI, there were more than 15,000 murders in the United States in 2015, representing a single-year increase of nearly 11 percent across the country. That was the largest increase since 1971 .

The increase in murders continued in 2016. Preliminary data from the first half of 2016 shows that large cities in the United States suffered an average increase in murders of nearly 22 percent compared with the same period from a year earlier.

As U.S. attorney general, I have a duty to protect all Americans and fulfill the president’s promise to make America safe again. Last month, after weeks of study and discussion with a host of criminal-justice participants, I issued a memorandum to all federal prosecutors regarding charging and sentencing policy that once again authorizes prosecutors to charge offenses as Congress intended. This two-page guidance instructs prosecutors to apply the laws on the books to the facts of the case in most cases, and allows them to exercise discretion where a strict application of the law would result in an injustice. Instead of barring prosecutors from faithfully enforcing the law, this policy empowers trusted professionals to apply the law fairly and exercise discretion when appropriate. That is the way good law enforcement has always worked.

Defenders of the status quo perpetuate the false story that federal prisons are filled with low-level, nonviolent drug offenders. The truth is less than 3 percent of federal offenders sentenced to imprisonment in 2016 were convicted of simple possession, and in most of those cases the defendants were drug dealers who accepted plea bargains in return for reduced sentences.

Federal drug offenders include major drug traffickers, gang members, importers, manufacturers and international drug cartel members. To be subject to a five-year mandatory sentence, a criminal would have to be arrested with 100 grams or more of heroin with the intent to distribute it — that is 1,000 doses of heroin.

The truth is that while the federal government softened its approach to drug enforcement, drug abuse and violent crime surged. The availability of dangerous drugs is up, the price has dropped and the purity is at dangerously high levels. Overdose deaths from opioids have nearly tripled since 2002. Overdose deaths involving synthetic opioids rose an astonishing 73 percent in 2015.

My fear is that this surge in violent crime is not a “blip,” but the start of a dangerous new trend — one that puts at risk the hard-won gains that have made our country a safer place.

Some skeptics prefer to sit on the sidelines and criticize federal efforts to combat crime. But it’s not our privileged communities that suffer the most from crime and violence. Minority communities are disproportionately impacted by violent drug trafficking. Poor neighborhoods are too often ignored in these conversations. Regardless of wealth or race, every American has the right to demand a safe neighborhood. Those of us who are responsible for promoting public safety cannot sit back while any American communities are ravaged by crime and violence.

There are those who are concerned about the fate of drug traffickers, but the law demands I protect the lives of victims that are ruined by drug trafficking and violent crime infecting their communities. Our new, time-tested policy empowers police and prosecutors to save lives.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-why-weve-made-restoring-the-rule-of-law-our-top-priority

The rule of law is the foundation of our system of government.  In the vision of our Founders, we have “a government of laws—and not of men.”

Under President Trump’s strong leadership, the Department of Justice has made restoring the rule of law our top priority. Everything we do is guided by this principle.

Under the previous administration, parties who had been sued by the government and then settled the lawsuit were sometimes required to pay community organizations that were not even involved in the case or harmed by the defendant. That was not only wrong, but contrary to longstanding legal principles, and we have put a stop to it. Lawsuit settlements with the government should not be used to bankroll third-party special interest groups or the friends of whomever is in power. They should help compensate victims or go to the taxpayer. Now that is what they will do.

We are also trusting our prosecutors again and letting them do their jobs.  The previous administration forced them to leave out important facts in drug cases to achieve sentences lighter than were required by the law. Federal drug prosecutions—and sentences—went down dramatically.  Meanwhile drug deaths rose to unprecedented levels.

We have removed this restriction on our prosecutors and told them to target the most violent criminals.  They have already achieved significant results, with charges for federal gun crimes up nearly a quarter.

The rule of law means abiding by all of our laws.  Restoring the rule of law therefore requires enforcing our immigration laws.

We are rewarding those jurisdictions that assist federal law enforcement—not those who refuse to, like “sanctuary” jurisdictions.  Our law enforcement grants now have conditions to encourage our state and local partners to help us remove criminal aliens from this country.  Politicians have no right to protect criminals or promote lawlessness.

Neither do those entrusted with classified information.  Leaks break the public trust and threaten public safety.  That is why we tripled the number of active investigations into leaks.  We have already charged four people with unlawfully disclosing classified material or concealing contacts with foreign intelligence officers.

When necessary, we go to court to keep the American people safe, such as when we defend the president’s right to protect this country from security threats. We are defending the president’s clear legal right to stop the entry of those who cannot be adequately vetted.  Numerous judges—and two district courts—have upheld the president’s travel ban, and we are confident that it will stand.

The Department cannot, however, defend illegal actions.  That is why we advised the administration to end the previous administration’s unlawful Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy, or DACA. This policy was contrary to our immigration laws and did not have Congressional approval—indeed, Congress rejected similar legislative proposals numerous times.

For the same reason, the Department has agreed to settlement terms with 469 Tea Party and other conservative groups whose tax-exempt applications were delayed by the IRS based on inappropriate criteria including conservative names and policy positions, and civil cases with 90 plaintiffs regarding the previous administration’s contraception mandate.  These cases never should have been necessary.

Religious liberty is an inalienable right, and at the president’s direction, we issued legal guidance on how to properly interpret and apply legal protections for religious liberty.  And it is not just freedom of worship: we do not give up our religious freedom when we are at work, when we interact with the federal government, or any other time we participate in society.

We do not give up our rights when we go to school, either.  This Department is standing up for those whose rights have been violated on campus, including supporting a lawsuit by one young man who was punished for discussing his faith outside of his school’s tiny “free speech zone.”   And we are examining a case where Asian-American students allege racial discrimination in one university’s admissions.

In 1776, Thomas Paine wrote that “in free countries, the law ought to be king.”  Under this administration, the Department of Justice is serving the American people by following the laws they have duly enacted—and we are just getting started.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/attorney-general-sessions-president-trump-knows-religious-freedom-is-a-right-not-a-policy-preference

Our Founders recognized that religion and religious people play a key role in strengthening our society. They feed the hungry, heal the sick, and comfort the grieving.  They teach right behavior and give meaning to life. They are present at birth and at death.

That’s why the Founders gave the public expression of religious belief a triple protection in our Constitution by protecting the “free exercise” of religion—not just worship in secret—banning an established religion, and ensuring the freedom of speech.

Under President Donald Trump, the federal government is affirming these protections and the contribution that religious individuals make to this country.

Since his election, President Trump has been an unwavering defender of religious liberty.  He has promised that under a Trump administration, “the federal government will never, ever penalize any person for their protected religious beliefs.”

At the Department of Justice, we are taking these fundamental principles seriously, and we are putting them into action.

For example, our Solicitor General argued before the Supreme Court in support of the Colorado baker who was sued for refusing to bake a cake for a same-sex wedding.  Earlier this month, the Court ruled in favor of the baker, 7 to 2.

We have settled 24 civil cases with approximately 90 plaintiffs regarding the previous administration’s wrongful application of the contraception mandate to objecting religious employers.  Last month, a district court in Colorado issued a permanent injunction in the case involving the Little Sisters of the Poor, a group of nuns who serve the elderly poor.  Because this injunction is permanent, the government can never again violate the Little Sisters’ rights in this way.  These cases should never have been necessary in the first place.  Religious groups should not have to go to the courts to protect their rights.

Soon after he took office, President Trump directed me to issue legal guidance for all executive agencies about how to apply the religious liberty protections in federal law.  I issued that guidance in October, and it makes clear that religious exercise is not just some policy preference: it is an inalienable right.

The guidance reiterates that our government may not discriminate against or between religious groups.

For example, religious organizations must be on equal footing with one another and with secular organizations when it comes to government grant funding.

That’s why, in January, we filed a brief in a Montana court to defend parents who claim that the state discriminated against their children by barring them from a private school scholarship program because they attend a religious school.

Religious schools and other institutions must also be on equal footing with one another and with secular institutions when it comes to zoning laws.

It is not enough to say people have freedom of worship but not the freedom to buy land, build a church, or expand the property they already have.  For freedom of religion to be real, people need a proper space where they can worship, pray, or preach.

When I was in the Senate, we passed a law called the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA), which prevents cities and towns from discriminating against religious organizations in land use and zoning decisions.    RLUIPA lets the Justice Department step in when churches, synagogues, mosques, or religious schools are treated differently from other public spaces.

Since it was enacted in 2000, RLUIPA has helped us defend many religious groups across the nation.  It has enabled us to protect Orthodox Jews in New York, Muslims in Minnesota, Greek Orthodox Christians in Wisconsin, and many others.

Last week, I announced a new initiative to help us carry out RLUIPA.  It’s called the Place to Worship Initiative. Under this initiative, the Department of Justice will seek to raise awareness about RLUIPA through public events across America and through better training for local officials and our federal prosecutors.  These efforts will help us bring more RLUIPA cases—and it will help us win them.  I also hope that if more people know their rights—and if more public officials know what the law requires—more cities and towns across America will accommodate people of faith without the involvement of the Justice Department.

Our Founders reserved a space for people of faith in the first lines of the First Amendment.  Under President Trump’s strong leadership, this Department of Justice is ensuring that people of faith can find have a fair shot at finding space in every town and every city in America.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-trump-doj-taking-steps-to-make-americans-safer-after-school-shootings

No child should have to fear going to school or walking the neighborhood streets. And yet, we know that many children and their parents do live in fear, in part because of a string of cowardly and barbaric school shootings in recent years.

Just last month, the American people were shocked and horrified by the vicious murder of 17 innocent students and educators in Parkland, Florida.

Fortunately, we have a law-and-order president who is determined to make America safer. President Trump and his administration are moving swiftly and taking action.

The Department of Justice will provide $1 million in emergency funding to Florida law enforcement agencies in Broward County and other jurisdictions that assisted with the response and investigation of the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

After the mass murder in Las Vegas back in October, President Trump instructed his administration to review how the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) – our lead firearms agency – has regulated bump stocks and similar devices.

In December, the Department of Justice announced its intention to issue a rule clarifying whether bump stocks qualified as machine guns and thus were prohibited under federal law. President Trump then directed the Department of Justice to propose rulemaking on bump stocks as expeditiously as possible.

This month, the Department of Justice proposed a rule clarifying that bump stocks should be prohibited because they effectively transform legal semi-automatic weapons into machine guns, which have been illegal in this country for decades under federal law.

Last week, the Department of Justice announced our next steps to build upon our response to the Parkland shooting. Following President Trump’s call to keep our schools and our neighborhoods safe, the Department of Justice is taking immediate action.

First, we are investing in putting more highly trained armed personnel in our schools. Every year, the Department of Justice helps local communities hire more police officers. Now we will give priority consideration to cities and states that specifically want to hire more school police officers.

Second, we are making several improvements to our criminal background check systems. I have ordered our federal prosecutors to aggressively prosecute those who lie to the background check system in order to try to get guns illegally. We cannot tolerate this kind of fraud.

Under my tenure as attorney general, we have already increased federal gun prosecutions to a 10-year high and violent crime prosecutions to a 25-year high – the highest level since records have been kept.

But we are just getting started. With this new policy in place, and with our continued emphasis on federal prosecution of the most dangerous gun offenders, we intend to break these records again.

We are also taking steps to ensure that the information accessible during a background check is both complete and up to date. After all, our background check systems are only as good as the information they receive.

We are holding federal agencies – as well as state and local jurisdictions – accountable for providing us with the information we need to know if someone shouldn’t have a gun.

I have ordered the FBI to identify the jurisdictions that fail to give us the information we need in a timely fashion. One problem we face all too often is that the FBI will have access to an arrest record, but there is no indication of the final outcome of the case. As a result of this information gap, people who are prohibited from having a gun can still pass a background check.

But we will help the states in this process. We will provide funding for increasing accessibility to the input of criminal records, especially domestic violence convictions, and information on people who have firearm restrictions related to mental illness.

Additionally, we must ensure that we properly use information coming in from the public. That’s why we will also improve the way Department of Justice law enforcement agencies respond to tips from the public. I have ordered an immediate audit and review of our existing process. We will ensure that we respond to life-saving and crime-fighting tips quickly and effectively.

With these new measures in place, we are better positioned to disarm criminals and protect the law-abiding people of this country. Achieving those two goals will help us achieve President Trump’s goal of a safer America.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/attorney-general-sessions-congress-must-pass-kates-law-and-make-america-safer

Two years ago this week, a young woman named Kate Steinle was murdered in cold blood—shot in the back as she walked with her father on a tourist pier in San Francisco.

The man charged with her murder, Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, was a seven-time felon and an illegal alien who had been deported five times. And yet he walked the streets of an American city freely.

Lopez-Sanchez should never have been on that pier with Kate.  He should have been in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).  And he would have been if San Francisco had only notified ICE of his release from the city’s custody, as ICE had requested.

But San Francisco refused to do so. The city continues to refuse to cooperate with federal immigration authorities. In fact, it’s city policy.

That’s because San Francisco is one of about 300 cities which openly refuse to turn over criminal illegal aliens to federal law enforcement.

These cities protect illegal aliens who have committed crimes, rather than their law-abiding residents.  These jurisdictions refuse to provide ICE with information about removable illegal aliens who are in their custody and have committed a crime or are suspected of having committed a crime.

It’s hard to believe, but some even refuse to hold known MS-13 gang members so that ICE can take them into custody. This gang terrorizes communities from Los Angeles to Long Island, killing, robbing, and pushing dangerous drugs on our streets. Members of this gang have murdered and gang-raped innocent children as part of their initiation into the group. Some 10,000 of these gang members are estimated to be in 40 states today and they tend to be concentrated in places that do not cooperate with federal immigration authorities. It’s easy to see why.

Consider the case of Ever Valles, an illegal alien who was charged with robbing and murdering 32-year-old Tim Cruz at a Denver light rail station.  ICE notified Denver authorities that it wanted to take custody of Valles, who had previously been charged with car theft and weapon possession and was a known gang member.  But Denver authorities released him anyway.  Cruz would not have died at the hands of Ever Valles had Valles been in ICE custody that day.

Cities like Denver also continue to shelter illegal aliens that are charged with driving under the influence or hit-and-run, despite the countless instances of illegal aliens, like Norlan Estrada-Reyes, driving carelessly and killing innocent Americans.  In October, Estrada-Reyes hit and killed a young lawyer, Karina Pulec, and then fled from the scene.  Estrada-Reyes had previously been arrested, but ICE was never notified.

The practices of these jurisdictions are not only contrary to sound policy; they’re contrary to the law enforcement cooperation that is carried out every day in our country and is essential to public safety. Federal law enforcement is not asking too much of these cities and states. We are simply asking them to do what most cities and states do, and something supported by the vast majority of the American people.

Congress can do its part to help end these policies by passing the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Kate’s Law, two bills that would make all Americans safer.

The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act would withhold certain federal grant money from jurisdictions that prohibit their officers from cooperating with ICE.  Under this bill, American taxpayers will no longer be forced to subsidize jurisdictions whose policies effectively work to make us less safe.

The bill also contains a provision—known as Sarah and Grant’s law—which would ensure that illegal aliens are detained pending their removal proceedings.  This provision was named after Sarah Root, a recent college graduate, who was killed by an illegal alien charged with driving under the influence of alcohol, and Grant Ronnebeck, who was killed by an illegal alien – a self-proclaimed member of the Sinaloa cartel – who had been released on bail pending his removal proceeding.

Congress can also make it harder for criminal aliens to repeatedly reenter the United States. Kate’s Law would do that by increasing the penalties for deported aliens who return to the United States.  We must send a clear message that re-entering after having been previously deported will cease to be a minor matter, but will result in prison and deportation.

These policies make all of us less safe by giving shelter to dangerous criminals. Congress can take a major step for public safety by passing these two critical pieces of legislation.

