https://www.realcleardefense.com/articles/2017/08/16/secdef_mattis_to_sailors_youre_not_some_p----_sitting_on_the_sidelines_112061.html

Thanks, commander.

And, young man, I'm only going to say a few words, because here in just a minute I'm going to ask you to ask me questions and find out what's on your minds, because that's the only way I really know what you’re thinking about and what's important.  I've gotten so senior.  I've grown remote from those of you who matter.

And we stand here in this beautiful corner of the country, and we're from all over the country, but you just think about you're -- (inaudible) -- think of the freedom that you grew up with that you want your kids, your little brother, your little sister to have.

And I'd like to stand here and tell you that we've finally found a way after a couple of thousand years on this planet of living in peace.  And we may have, one of these days.

But one thing's for certain, the number one priority of the Department of Defense is that we maintain a safe, secure and effective nuclear deterrent so we make certain those weapons are never used.  If they are, that fight is over with very, very quickly, as we try to restore some kind of health to this planet.

And the seriousness of what you all do, and the attention to detail, and watching out for your shipmate on the left and right, and taking care of each other, and living up to a standard that I'll you right now 90 percent of your country could not live up to (inaudible) screening test.  They could not pass the qualifications once they were in.  They couldn't live by a code of honor.  That means you do the right thing -- (inaudible) -- someone's watching -- (inaudible).

And the only reason that this experiment that you and I call America is still alive this long in a world that does not appreciate freedom, that too often does not, the kind of freedom you and I sometimes, oftentimes, take for granted, is that every generation of Americans willing to fight for it.  And you're part of a very proud, silent service.  And I know -- (inaudible).  Sometimes on the most important missions I sign the orders for it.  It goes on.  Secretaries of defense come and go, but the silent service keeps performing quietly.  You know how to keep secrets, unlike a lot of people -- (inaudible) -- and you guard this country.  You guard this country very well.

And I've come out here, really, to pay my respects to you and to learn what's on your minds.  Everyone of you, if you qualified for this program, could get out of the Navy today, could make a lot more money, and you don't spend any months at sea, where you don't know what's going on with your wife or your sister's wedding, or something like that.  So, I've got to come here and just tell you thank you.  I know that I haven't met you personally, but I do know you.  I sense I know you, because if you were not willing to sacrifice for the country, if you weren't willing to keep a little spirit of adventure and take that boat out every couple of months, then this country would not exist without your kind of service.  It's just that simple in this imperfect world.

So thanks for sticking with the Navy.  For those on your first -- (inaudible) -- you can get out the Navy after -- (inaudible).  You'll still miss it.  You'll miss it like the dickens, and you'll be changed for the better for the rest of your life.  So you'll never regret, but you will have some of the best days of your life and some of the worst days of your life in the U.S. Navy, you know what I mean?  That says -- that means you're living.  That means you're living.  That means you're not some pussy sitting on the sidelines, you know what I mean, kind of sitting there saying, “Well, I should have done something with my life.”  Because of what you're doing now, you're not going to be laying on a shrink's couch when you're 45 years old, say “What the hell did I do with my life?”  Why? Because you served others; you served something bigger than you.  

And I'm not here to give you a re-enlistment lecture.  I wish -- I was I was young enough to go back out to sea, although I will admit it takes a special kind of person to be in submarines.  I was in the Marines, and there's a world of difference between a submariner and a Marine, you know what I mean? (Laughter.)

I spent seven days underwater once on a submarine so small it'd fit in half of this thing, and I was never so happy as when I got back to the surface, you know what I mean?  (Laughter.)

So, I do admire you.  I have a little sense of what happens and all that stuff when you go down, but I got nothing like your experience, and I just stand here in respect of every one of you.  Some of you aren't even old enough to drink a beer, and yet you're the only reason I came back to work in the Department of Defense, was to serve, in some way, you guys, because you know, frankly, that's best paycheck in the world.  

Now I'm not going to leave until you ask me some questions.  And it's going to get real weird if I'm sitting here looking at you and you're looking at me and no one's asking questions.  

So -- ah, there we go, right back in the back.  You got someone to take the lid off here.  Go ahead.

OK, so you're getting into something that's non-quantifiable.  

What else is on your minds?  You're not getting off that easy, folks.  I've got to hear what's on your minds.  It'll -- (inaudible).

Yes, that's a great question.  Now, are we going to maintain all three legs of the triad?  You know you're the most survivable.  So long as you can run this boat quietly, you'll stay survivable.  

Then of course we've got the bombers, and we need the bombers because they address a different target set, and they give us a different mode of command and control.

And then we've got the ICBMs (intercontinental ballistic missiles).

Now coming into the job I've been three years out of the Marines.  I was the infantry for a long time, and I had time -- when I was living down at a university, down at Stanford University south of here, and I studied this, and I had a lot of questions.

I believe as I got done with each of the three legs, yours is sacrosanct.  You and your mission, that you know, and it's because of how good you are. If we didn't have control over the Naval reactors, you didn't -- weren't able to run those right, if we had a lack of managerial integrity -- you and I call it small-unit discipline, if we didn't have that, it wouldn't be the same thing.

But I can look you in the eye and tell you, that nothing is more certain than if you have a sailor son of yours going to the Navy one day, he could very well be doing the same thing falls if he falls in his father's footsteps.  You'll be here.  

Bombers will still be here.  We've got to give them some standoff capability.  We got that.  They'll be there.  

The ICBMs, because an enemy would have to shoot so much to take them out, you know because their dug in underground, it's going to soak up a lot. 

I think we're going to keep all three legs of the deterrent.

However, we've got a review going on right now.  I've got the smartest people I can find.  And it's Republican and Democrat.  It's men and women.  It's old people.  It's young physicists.  It's people who studied history.  There are people who know what they're doing.  And then I brought in a whole bunch of old Navy admirals who've gone through your program, and people like that, Air Force generals, and they're going to review what those smart people are doing.  And when we get done we'll have a good posture set for us.

And it really goes back why we need you, answering the first -- the lieutenant's question.  And I think we need the other two legs.  But I've got to wait until the posture review is done.  

But you're safe in terms of your job -- you'll have a job even if you stick around in the Navy, 29, 30 years, OK?  And for those of us who went for 40, we were just slow learners, all right. (Laughter.)

Who else has a question?  This is the silent -- strong, silent side over here.

Oh, here we go, right here.

Yes, will the SSBNs continue to carry most of the weapons.  In a short answer, yes, they will.

I do want to look at some novel ways to ensure that the nuclear arsenal stays very safe and effective, but that will not change at all -- (inaudible).  That will not change anything, as far as the overall split.  It will be a variation on the same theme.

Any other questions about anything?  You can ask me about anything -- (inaudible).

Go ahead.

OK, about three points there.

If we were standing here in 1945, let's say, December.  It's Christmastime.  You guys are coming back in from all over, places called Japan, Okinawa, Iwo Jima, Philippines.  You've taken the Army and the Marines all over.  You've landed on the islands yourselves.  You're Seabees and corpsmen. You've set up logistics dumps, and you look around.  Now you've grown up in a depression, when you're dad didn't have a job and he couldn't find (work no matter what.  You've just gone through a war that cost us hundreds of thousands killed and wounded, and over -- (inaudible).  We're not sure how many millions – 40 million -- people dead.

And they looked around, and they said, what a crummy world.  And they've just come through a war, and some of you know what that's like.  

And they said, like it or not, we're a part of that world, and they did something.  They made the United Nations.  Never had a place where everybody came together and talked before.  It's still not perfect.  A lot better than nothing.  They made NATO.  

The Australian ambassador to the United States once told me -- (inaudible) -- was the single most self-sacrificial act in world history when -- (inaudible) -- Americans said, instead of turning their backs on Europe, two World Wars in 30 years.  They could have said, “We're through with you; we're going to work with Latin America and (inaudible), with the Middle East.  We're just not going to put up with anymore of your crap.”  Instead, we put in NATO, sent U.S. troops over, and we said a hundred million Americans may die in a nuclear war, but we're going to stand with you NATO, all of Europe -- Western Europe.  You're not going to fall to the Soviets.

We put together something called the International Monetary Fund, so people for economic reasons wouldn't be driven to elect a guy like Hitler -- you what I mean? -- as the answer.  

And by the time they got done, they created a new world order, and every nation on Earth -- (inaudible) – has actually benefitted.

So, do we return to our isolationist roots?  We could only do that if we forget the example, forget the example, Lieutenant English, of the Greatest Generation.  And we ought not forget that example.  They're not called the Greatest Generation for no reason, OK?

The second thing is, then, what do we do about, you know, the size of the fleet and that sort of thing.  We're going to have to grow the fleet. That's all there is to it.  But also what we're going to do in strengthening the military by making certain the new Columbia-class (submarine) is at the top of her game.

And the other things were going to do here make the military more lethal.  We're also going to have a second line of effort that's going to be that we're going to build stronger alliances.  We're going to do more with our allies.

Now you probably will not be involved in that very much.  You are a unilateral, quiet -- know everyone knows you're there.  And frankly, if you're one of our friends, they love you.  They don't know you, but believe me, I can walk into rooms and then they will ask me, does your extended -- (Laughter.)  Yeah, well, it happens, right? (Laughter.)

But the bottom line -- (inaudible) -- be separate, but we will try to get more other navies to carry more of the load, but we'll also have more folks in their armies and air forces.  Right now, for example, to take down Mosul, we have had two Americans, I think it is, die, around 20 wounded, to take Mosul.  We had over 6,000 Iraq (inaudible) and over 1,200 killed.  (Inaudible) what we’re doing -- we're working with them.  We're bringing Navy airplanes in over -- (inaudible).  We've got Marine artilleryman firing for them.  We've got special forces calling in air support, but we're going to do it by, with and through allies.

And the number one thing is you, believe it or not.  It's not the speeches of a secretary of defense; it's volunteers who join the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps, Coast Guard.  They volunteer.  They look past all the hot political rhetoric, and they rally to the flag, OK?  You send a message -- you send the message, and all I do is convey it.  It's your example that sends the message.  

If we want to turn over a world to our next generation -- and every generation of Americans have to do that -- we can't learn the lesson the Greatest Generation learned the hard way.  

That answer your question?

How about over here?

All right, listen, you guys have had enough time standing underneath these seagulls.  I've been a little worried here for a minute, you know? (Laughter.) 

Thank you.  Again, I came here to pay my respects to all you fine young men.  And as you sail out next time, my thoughts and prayers will be with you.  Bring her home safely, but stay ready while you're out there, you understand?  Because if we've got to turn something off in a hurry we're counting on you to turn it off in a hurry, OK?  

All right, so long shipmates.  Thank you.

https://dod.defense.gov/News/Speeches/Speech-View/Article/1196675/honor-fallen-service-members-on-memorial-day-wreath-laying-ceremony/

We gather here today with a shared attitude of gratitude.

 

Twenty-Three centuries ago, so Plutarch tell us, an old Spartan King observed, it is not the places that grace men but men grace the places.  Today we know that he was right.  More than a century ago, this 624-acre plot of land was a plantation on the Potomac. Scenic, but hardly sacred. Now, these fields hold the greatest treasure of our nation. America’s courageous, dead. Those who today we pause to remember.

 

Not far from here lies the marker of Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., a Civil War infantry veteran, who later rose to be a Supreme Court justice. Holmes said those who serve in our military have hearts that are “touched with fire. Having known great things,” he said, they are “content with silence.”

 

If you have ever known one of the fallen, you have known greatness. But it is hard to be content with their silence, for we miss them. The empty chair on a holiday, empty every day. The photograph that goes wherever you do. The picture fades, but the person in it does not.

 

Their fighting spirit persists, passed down through the ranks, their spirit echoes in those who serve today in the air, on land, and at sea.

 

In a world awash with change, some things stand firm. Some things are as Plato said: Good and true and beautiful.

 

The kid on the line who never got a chance to grow old will always be there to teach us that suffering has meaning if it is accepted out of love for others.

 

To the families of the fallen, both here and at home, no words will ease your pain. But I beg you, let it have meaning. Unite your sorrow to their awesome purpose. People do grace places, but people also grace people. We are blessed by our time with those now asleep, the mighty and the gentle.

 

Let us share their story with others.

Now ladies and gentlemen it is my great honor to introduce our Command-in-Chief, President of the United States Donald Trump.

https://dod.defense.gov/News/Speeches/Speech-View/Article/1180319/remarks-by-secretary-of-defense-jim-mattis-at-the-london-somalia-conference-in/

Many thanks, Secretary Fallon, for your government bringing us together.

For many years Britain has galvanized the international community through the power of its moral voice.

Prime Minister May, through her personal leadership and the strength of her moral argument, has reminded us of our responsibilities. She has fixed our attention, at the right moment, on a challenge we can all do something about.

I am privileged to add my country’s voice to her call to action, each of us together amplifying the voice of everyone else in this room, building support for this mission.

Many have a view of Somalia and some might be forgiven for losing hope. But we hold fast, we have seen the international community improve regions that were once war-torn, the “good news” that Secretary General Guterres referred to in his opening comments

To the AMISOM leaders here today, thank you for your sacrifice and commitment to this mission. I pay America’s respect to the AMISON and Somali soldiers who have fallen in these past years. They died defending the ideal that all people are entitled to peace and the rule of law.

In President Farmaajo, we now have a leader who’s willing to put personal comfort aside and carry the responsibilities and danger of leadership. Mr. President, congratulations on the adoption of the new national security architecture. This agreement is a major step toward unifying the country and armed forces. It serves as a foundation for further agreements and action. As Prime Minister May stated earlier, we need to get behind President Farmaajo and his program.

I welcome President Farmaajo’s pledge to establish security not by arms alone, but by pledging to root out corruption, pursue good governance, and bring about reconciliation. A government that can win the affection and respect of its people is resistant to the siren song of hate and violence espoused by Al Shabaab or like-minded murderers.

I am reminded that problems in ungoverned spaces do not remain in those same spaces. A secure Somalia is in the mutual interest of all our nations. The United States is committed to supporting the security pact before us today, in a “timely manner” as the prime minister of Turkey emphasized in his remarks.

The situation in Somalia has changed since ANISOM’s beginning, and our security assistance has changed as well. Equipment, logistics, and pre-deployment training for AMISOM battalions has been joined by training for select Somali soldiers, the provision of basic equipment to the Somalia National Army, and capacity-building so that army can better sustain its forces in the field.

We will continue to strengthen and evolve our security assistance to Somalia, knowing that a nation’s security enables its prosperity.

We will assist other security partners to coordinate and scale up training and equipment programs, according to the common curriculum within the security pact.

I have asked General Waldhauser, commander of U.S. Africa Command, to take direct role in training specific numbers of proficient and mobile light infantry capable of defeating Al-Shabaab. These forces will also be trained to help protect communities and assist with basic human needs, while respecting human rights and the rule of law.

Additionally, we will provide resources and train Somali soldiers to supply and sustain their comrades in the field.

We should recognize that Somali soldiers who resort to criminality to feed themselves and their families or who abandon their posts because they are ill-armed the best advertisement of Al-Shabaab.

It is our goal to help President Farmaajo to have a proud national force, representative of all Somalis and respectful to all Somalis.

We will frame our support on two principles.

First, we support the new national security architecture, recognizing that it is essential for Somalia to have a professional, trusted military and proper police force that answers to civilian authority.

Second, we encourage Somalia’s international partners to stay the course and work together. A strong and committed partnership is required to provide the resources needed for long-term stability in Somalia.

I have asked Ambassador Schwartz and General Waldhauser to provide recommendations on how best to strengthen donor coordination and achieve results. U.S. Assistance to Somalia will never be one-dimensional. We will pursue integration of all means of support: diplomatic, developmental, and military. Security assistance alone does not bring peace.

Together, ladies and gentlemen, we shall keep the faith. To Her Majesty’s government, thank you for your leadership, and thank all of you here today for your contributions to restoring Somali peace. President Farmaajo, the American people are so proud of you for your commitment to the people of Somalia and we will stand by you.

https://dod.defense.gov/News/Transcripts/Transcript-View/Article/1678582/remarks-by-secretary-mattis-at-an-armed-forces-full-honor-arrival-welcoming-rep/

Well Minister Jeong, it is an honor to welcome you and your delegation on your first visit to the Pentagon since taking the helm as Minister of Defense.  We first met during your time as Chairman of the Republic of Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Two weeks ago in Singapore, I mentioned that the news of your appointment was very well received here in Washington.  I'm confident that we will be a good team in carrying out our nations policies.  In this regard, today we successfully completed the 50th iteration of our nations annual Security Consultative Meeting.

Thanks to months of work by our hardworking, collaborative staffs, this milestone in our U.S.-Republic of Korea alliance bolsters an already strong partnership, one that is built on our foundation of common democratic values and the special type of trust shared only between those who have fought and died alongside one another on the battlefield.

Our predecessors would find us worthy in this demonstration of co-equal responsibility in the defense of liberty.  Minister Jeong, as fellow men in uniform in our younger days, you know well the fraternal bonds formed in what former U.S. Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes called the incommunicable experience of war.

From the chosen reservoir to the rice patties of Vietnam, a conflict of which your nation contributed more personnel than any other foreign nation, to the deserts and cities of Iraq in this century, our troops have stood together against challenges to the safety and sovereignty of our respective nations, as well as the stability of the rules-based international order.

And here I must note the Republic of Korea's contribution of funds to Afghanistan's reconstruction, as well as your nation's involvement in peacekeeping operations and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief efforts in the Indo-Pacific region make even clearer your nation's commitment to upholding our international order.

Our nations bonds were forged in the tragedy of war, and they endure as we strive to continue fortifying and deepening our ironclad alliance in support of the Korean peoples freedom and of peace.  

During today's Security Consultative Meeting, our delegation did just that -- we signed our mutually declared alliance guiding principles, a document which paves the way for clarifying the conditions-based transition of wartime operational control of our combined forces.

In signing this document, we ensure continuity for the ROK-led future Combined Forces Command, as it assumes the mission of our current U.S.-led Combined Forces Command.  The Future Command will continue to use the combined might of U.S.-ROK alliance to defend the ROK's sovereignty from any external aggression.

As the ROK prepares to lead our combined defense of the Korean peninsula, I must note the U.S.' strong support for your nation's ongoing efforts to fulfill the conditions for this op-con transition.  Minister Jeong, in further developing the Republic of Korea's military capabilities and expanding responsibility for deterring external aggression, you demonstrate your nation's commitment to your own defense.

In signing this document, we also reaffirm the continued presence of U.S. troops stationed on the Korean peninsula, in fulfillment of U.S. commitment established 65 years ago in our mutual defense treaty.  And with the proper establishment of the future Combined Forces Command, our alliance will continue to be stronger, better coordinated and better protected than ever before.

At today's meeting, we also studied the details of the joint study for the future defense vision of the U.S.-ROK alliance, which will be conducted over the course of this next year.  This study will examine the role our alliance would play following the final, fully verified denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, to strengthen the Indo-Pacific's peace, prosperity and stability.

And to that end, today Minister Jeong and I both recommitted our militaries full support for the diplomat-led negotiations with the DPRK, and we look forward to seeing continued, concrete progress as our diplomats work to resolve this more than half century long conflict.

Minister Jeong, to you and all the members of your delegation, thank you for traveling to Washington for our 50th Security Consultative Meeting.  As you return home, we recognize that with an alliance now stronger, that means a better opportunity for peace.

To date, discussions make clear that our alliance's motto endures -- Katchi Kapshida, we will always go together.

https://dod.defense.gov/News/Transcripts/Transcript-View/Article/1645050/remarks-by-secretary-mattis-at-the-virginia-military-institute-lexington-virgin/

Well, thank you.  Thank you very much, all of you.  And we'll see if you clap that loud when I get done, I might add.  We'll see if I pass the grade here. 

But General Peay, a former commander of mine, thanks for the very kind introduction.  I would just tell you, I still remember the 101st over there, well to the left of the Marines.  

And there was nothing that could stop that unit, as they closed in on MSR Newmarket. I think I know where that name came from, when we saw it on the tactical maps. 

But I would also tell you that your fighting instinct permeated all the way down to me years later as the regimental commander out in the Mojave, when you came out and reviewed the attack we made there. 

I would just say that with VMI blood running through your veins, it's great that you followed your father's footsteps as a cadet here and then have returned once again.  

It builds a lot of my confidence as I think about what's facing our country today, to know that someone -- what we call in the Naval service a "shipmate" -- is here guiding this school today. 

One of the reasons I wanted to come here is, I owe you a debt.  I owe this school a debt because many, many times, I have had graduates of this school serve around me, above me, under me and there is a debt that our country owes that goes back many, many decades, as you know, for a school that develops this sense of service before self, of putting others first. 

And that's really what you come out of there with, whether you're going to serve in the military or you're going to serve your communities, corporations, whatever.  But be a good corporate citizen.  

There's an ethos that comes from living the way you're living, by the code you're living by today.  And it's good, once in a while, for someone who has no affiliation with the school to come by and recognize it because I also know this is not an easy road that you've chosen. 

I've grown very remote from you young folks today, who matter, who carry so much of our hopes on your young shoulders.  And I want to close that gap today, to the degree I can. 

And I would throw out some nuggets here.  I'm going to talk for a few minutes, then we're going to get to the good part, which is, of course, the Q&A. 

I think mostly, I want to share my ideas on where your Department of Defense is going.  General Peay did not serve in the Army, he served in the U.S. Army. 

I didn't serve in the Marines Corps, I served in the U.S. Marine Corps.  We're accountable to you and we are owned by you.  So if what we're doing can't pass your review, then I need to hear it.  

And from what I’ve heard, this is not a shy audience so I look toward the give-and-take and we're always willing to put you into any boot camp immediately if you irritate me, OK?

That's the way it'll be. 

But each new generation, I think, turns to the past for some kind of strength and inspiration.  I call it "lighting the dark path ahead."  It's why I did a lot of reading.  

It was also because the Marine Corps insisted I do a lot of reading, I might add, and they were not there to help me through my midlife crisis when I came up -- the reason why I hadn't read the book that week.  

So they helped guide me through, but also look for the role models who would inspire me or show me how other people dealt with a similar situation I might confront one day, either successfully or unsuccessfully. 

I think it's especially true in the military ranks, we look for role models because the roughest auditor in the world is going to audit your character, your intellect, your physical fitness.  And that auditor, of course, is named "War," for those of you who go off to fight for this country. 

This institution was actually established to develop the professional qualities and the character to meet that auditor, so you could meet them -- that auditor -- and all of his challengers that he aligned with them on a battlefield, you could meet those challenges without confusion or hesitation when our country needed you. 

And since the Civil War, every generation of America has turned to your graduates to help keep alive what I call our "experiment in democracy," and that's all it is.  It's one great big experiment that's testing to see if a government of the people, by the people and for the people can long survive in a world that is not helpful on many occasions.  

You're going to be expected to carry on that legacy.  There's many, many ways to do so, and I would just say that I want to share some expectations with you in human terms, the kind of things that I often share with the officers, the young officers and the young troops who hold the line today in our military.  

Our nation is emerging from a period of strategic atrophy.  I would call it a strategy-free time.  I was shocked when I came in.  I said bring me the strategy -- this was on my first day, I came in at noon because it was a Saturday, we'd partied late Friday night, I came and said, Bring me the strategy.  You know, I am ready to sit down and read this. They shuffled their feet and said we don't have one.  

That was my first indication that we might have a little problem there.  And it's not a political statement.  This went back over 10 years we lacked a strategy.  

I bring this up because today we all recognize that terrorism is a clear and present danger, and our young guys who are overseas tonight -- it's already dark over there, and they're going out one more time, boarding the helicopters, going on the patrols, helping young Afghan boys find their manhood and take the enemy on.  

It's going on in Syria, it's going on in Iraq, and a couple of other places we don't talk a lot about.  And I think that while it remains a significant threat, today great power competition is the one way we could probably have our way of life changed from freedom to something else.  

So while we've written up a National Defense Strategy and we've answered the challenges as we've defined them -- the problems we've defined, and we've defined the problems pretty well -- with three lines of efforts.  

The first one is we're going to make the military more lethal.  Any time a military loses sight of its purpose in this world, it ends up getting beaten.  That's the bottom line.  And I want people to just love to talk to our State Department, and I want them to dislike the idea of confronting our military on the battlefield because they've chosen to pick a fight with us.  

So a very lethal military with very high levels of readiness is the first line of effort we're putting together to keep our experiment alive.  

The second line of effort is one where I spend probably most of my time, as General P. said, where I'm on the world stage a lot.  And that is we're going to strengthen our existing alliances -- you know them as NATO or Japan, the bilateral treaties, that sort of thing.  We're going to strengthen those and we're going to broaden them.  We're going to make more partners and more alliances around the world so that we don't carry the full burden for this.  

This is no longer post-World War II, with Europe bombed flat and Japan in tatters.  These are rich nations now in no small part due to what General Marshall did when he left this school having sustained an injury as a Rat, and then come out as a natural leader and bred for leadership.  

And he put together much of the effort, so I'm going back to the future in order to bring his ideas forward from the Marshall Plan, from NATO, and many other places where his thumbprint was so well embedded on everything our nation was doing in terms of foreign policy.  And it's very simple why he did this I think, because anyone who reads history knows that nations with allies thrive and nations without allies basically wither away.  

So we're going to create more allies, and then the third thing we're going to do is we're going to modernize the Department of Defense so every dollar I get I can look the American Congress in the eye and say, We didn't waste your money.  We didn't waste the Treasury, and it went to make our military more lethal.

 So that's a responsibility we carry, and I would just tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we all know our country's having a tough time right now in a number of areas.  I stand here in your beautiful town, your beautiful school with mixed emotions.  I'm so happy to be out of Washington, D.C. right now I could cry.  

 OK?  We have problems in the country right now.  But I want you to know, probably not well reported, just last week the Senate voted 93 to 7 to give us a record-breaking budget a second year in a row.  Why do I bring that up?  I think the House of Representatives will probably vote overwhelmingly as well this week; knock on wood, I think they're going to do that, to give us the same budget.  

And I bring this up because there's going to be times you're going to watch the news -- I don't do it myself, if I want to be depressed, I go to war, you know what I mean?  As I don't need to...  

...to watch the news.  But if you watch the news, you can start wondering what's going on in this country.  You just keep the faith, my fine young cadets.  We're going to pull through this.  We've been through worse than this.  

We're going to modernize that DOD so as we put the money into the defense budget we can keep the faith and the trust of the American people on which everything else in the Department of Defense depends.  

VMI's got a key part, I think, in driving progress along the lines of effort like this, because we need sharp young people going into the professions in America, and certainly into the military as well.  And so I want to start with the first two lines of effort and talk a little more detail here, and let me start with number two, where we're going to actually build our partnerships and build our alliances even more.  

When you look at George C. Marshall, that 1901 graduate of VMI, that bronze figure out there in front of your barracks serves as a daily reminder of the positive impacts of his courageous leadership.  But he was not a man who did things without studying the issues.  

I would just point out too that he proved his qualities that he developed here at VMI and put his education to practice during World War II's darkest hours, certainly, when every inch of (his body was committed day in and day out, seven days a week, to making certain we did not lose this experiment to the surging fascists.  

And remember, there was nothing certain that we were going to win that war.  It took the blood, sweat, and tears of a lot of hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom did not ever return from that war.  

But what he did after the war is probably just as compelling, where he extended a hand to our allies who'd been flattened in the war.  You know how London was bombed and Paris was overtaken by the Germans.  

But he also went to our adversaries.  Think of how vicious that war was against the Nazis, think what it was like in the Pacific Campaign, where it was a take no prisoners often kind of fighting, and he turns around and he helps set up the plan that draws these nations back together into the community of nations, knowing that the future for the younger generation was dependent on us trying to create a better world.  

And that spirit of partnership lives on.  I'm sure it lives on here, where you've got foreign cadets here in your ranks and -- and foreign students here.  But he also saw that he had the opportunity to build up other kind of alliances.  He was a key person in NATO, in putting NATO together, and I had the Australian Ambassador from Washington, D.C. -- sometimes it takes a foreigner talking to us.  My fine cadets to really understand why we should cherish our citizenship, and the Australian ambassador told me over lunch one day in his backyard in Washington, he said that America committed the most self-sacrificial act in world history after World War II.  I consider myself somewhat of a knowledgeable historian.  I'm scratching my head, thinking, well the Marshall plan was pretty nice.  

And then he said no, no.  He said it was NATO, when America committed 100 million dead Americans in a thermal nuclear war for the protection of democracy in Western Europe.  It took a foreigner to tell me what we'd done.  See what I'm driving at here?  Think of the level of commitment and devotion to the idea that we take for granted here today of our democracy, that as raucous as it may be, we all know we have a vote that -- that a secretary of Defense has no more vote than a cadet, once you decide to vote, which I hope is young. 

I would just point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that what General Marshall saw and treasured so much is going to continue to demand what you do, but also with foreign nations.  It's going to continue to demand this because we're still building a nation here; we're still building a nation.  It's hard work.  Its noble work, but I'll say again, it's hard work.  So don't ever think we're done.  We are not perfect but we are certainly going to always strive to be better.

And I think that if you look at how we look at the world and if you look at it and say we're stronger when we're together, we're going to need you and your vigor, we're going to need your kind of open-mindedness as we try to seize opportunities to cooperate across borders.  And it's very obvious here when you have cadets from various places, Bulgaria, Italy, China, Taiwan, Thailand, I understand the Republic of Korea, Indonesia, France, Germany.  

Please understand that when you're in a position General P. and I were in our final tours on active duty, having officers who are not willing to listen to other people, but are willing to be persuaded by other people -- there's a whale of a lot of difference there -- that means you're going to come up with the best possible ideas, you're going to come up with the best possible teamwork.

Not all the good ideas come from a nation with the most aircraft carriers, so we're going to be assuming that you can carry on that legacy.  And remember, America wants no empire of the world other than an empire of ideas.  The ideas that we stand for are rule of law, the dignity of all, the teamwork, the respect for one another and that sort of thing. 

I think for those of you going in the military, it's good to remember that for whatever challenges we may face today in our nation, where was the first time that a man and a woman, a black man, a white man, a Native American, all voted as equals in the history of United States?  And you should be very proud of it because it was on a U.S. Army long-range reconnaissance patrol that you and I call the Lewis and Clark Expedition at the mouth of the Columbia River. 

In other words, America was never perfect, and we'll never accept its perfect today.  But the military has often been the model -- and VMI is certainly in the military tradition in every sense of the word -- it is the model the rest of our country can turn to a difficult time and say I see how this can look if we all pull together for a common cause. 

I think too, that as we look at all of you stand ready to serve, I would just point out here that those of you who are ready to look past the hot political rhetoric, those of you who are willing to sign that blank check payable to the American people, payable with your lives, I would just point out that you also with that commitment, carry on a tradition that is worth its weight in gold to our allies who look to us for strength and certainly to our adversary to say, well maybe I don't want to try it today.  

Maybe we can keep the peace one more year, my fine young cadets, one more month, one more week, one more day, while the diplomats work their magic to try and solve the problems that we have out there in the world; and there are many as you know right now.  I think too, you need to know, those of you who are going on active duty, that we do expect you at the top of your game; top of your physical game, top of your intellectual game, and top of your spiritual game.  So spiritually, you have a shock absorber in you that will help carry the shocks of combat when your young troops underneath you face that for the first time. 

We need your curiosity.  We need you physically tougher than your troops, or at least as tough as the very toughest ones you have, because that's the way you gain the respect in the unfair world of those who close with our nation's enemies.  And I think when you report to duty, we are counting on you to display the audacity in carrying out your commander's intent that a school like this can create in you, because you were brought up with the very legacy of audacity every day when you are walking these hallowed grounds, and they are hallowed.  

When you look at the number of young men, young women who've come out of here and gone on to serve.  We are also looking at you to maintain that long fighting tradition because it's going to be your attention to duty, your example of self-discipline, your coaching ability and your force of personality that's going to animate and draw your young troops to look to you when the chips are down. 

You are going to be tested.  Those of you going into the military, you are going to be tested in ways that others of your generation will never know, and you will come to know someday and to understand what a privilege it is to be given such tests.  The general and I, would say that we were privileged to fight for this country the many times that we went and did so.  And you're going to learn things about your own moral self; you're going to learn things about your ethical self and your fellow men and women in uniform that you're going to treasure forever.

That is something that nothing can take it away from you, it's why so many go in for just four or five years and they come out, go to grad school, or they go off and lead universities, or teach, or they go off in the corporate world.

But for those of you will have seen the moonrise on the far side of the world, you're going to get some very privileged glimpses into the human heart, as one noted author put it.  And for you young officers too, I want you to remember, you only have to win one battle, but it's one you have to win every day.  And that one battle is for the hearts and minds and the trust and affections of the young men and women who are going to be serving alongside you that you outrank, but you're very, very close to.

You must make sure that as you -- because you're going to be given a lot of authority when you're very young, don't let your passion for excellence outweigh your compassion for them as human beings as young citizens who signed up to go all the way against the enemy.  If you win their trust, you win their respect and they'll never let you down, even in that daunting test of combat.  So you win that one battle for your troops and then they win all the rest for you.  

I think I've seen what other units in times have performed so well at.  I've had the opportunity, like General Peay, to observe young officers in many different climbs and places. 

And it was always striking to me how one platoon of 40 young sailors or Marines under a Marine lieutenant could perform, at times, as well as a company of 160, 180.  

And I used to just, you know, almost be in awe of it as I watched them move against the enemy, taking casualties, keeping moving. 

And eventually, I think I found what separated them.  They weren't different people, they were all recruited from America.  They were all given the same training.  They had the same kit hanging on them.  They knew how to call air support.  They trusted their officers.  

But what made one so fluid and so smooth against the enemy?  And I would just tell you that it happened in my own unit.  As a two-star, I had 29 sailors and Marines around me.  And in four months, 29 of them -- excuse me -- 17 of the 29 would be killed or wounded.  It was a very difficult area that we were in. 

And I was amazed, eventually, I got every officer aide I had shot, so eventually I had a gunnery sergeant for my aide because the officers didn't want to be my aide any more, you know? 

And I used to be amazed at how he'd get out with those troops and they'd be ready to go harder than petrified woodpecker lips, you know what I mean?  One of those kind of guys? 

But he was very, very smart.  He was a communicator and he would always put them through their rehearsals and everything.  I mean, I keep wondering, Why do they keep going out with us when we keep getting hit like this?

And eventually, I think the world I settled on was "affection."  There was an affection for one another that he bred in those young sailors and Marines.  It was an affection that went beyond just the respect.  

And it was not popularity.  It was not all the favoritism that comes with trying to be popular.  It was an affection for each other that made them all buy into the mission. 

And I share that with you because there are times when you're going to be out there and the only person they can look to is going to be you.  And they've got to know the toughest guy on the team is their coach, and he's tough for them.  He's not tough against them. 

And I bring this up because your understanding of the difference between a mistake and a lack of discipline will be critical.  You cannot expect people to never make mistakes, least of all in something that searches you every day on a battlefield full of fear and that sort of thing.  People make mistakes. 

But if you train people well, if you coach them well and you can bring them up, then you will spot the one who has not maintained the discipline standards.  

And then you have to do what you have to do to reimpose the discipline.  And that's usually a whole lot of real, strong coaching.  Once in a while, it's got to be more than that because you are the senior person there, when you get out there.  

And you come out of something like VMI, they did not have the chance for four years of growth at an institution and the great opportunity that you have here. 

I want to leave enough time for the Q&A here, so I want to just close with something that I learned out, overseas.  You get old like me, and you like learning stuff.  You know?  It's like, it's not a pain in the neck like it is in some of the classrooms, you know?  You really want to learn stuff. 

And I was out in the middle of nowhere a few years ago, again with my little team there, rolling down the road.  And it was probably, oh, somewhere around 40 to 50 kilometers from the nearest next outpost. 

And we pulled in during the night because we had trouble getting there.  Got inside this lieutenant's perimeter with about 40 guys out there, sailors and Marines. 

And when the sun came up, they came over to see me, check in.  And he said, "By the way, General, last night we caught a guy trying to lay an IED on the road you were driving in on."

I said, "Well, that's kind of nice."  You know.  A little personal, you know what I mean?  Wanted to blow me up. 

He said, "Yeah, he's an engineer and he speaks perfect English, do you want to talk with him?"  I said, "Sure, bring him over."

So they brought him over to see me.  And he was shaking like a leaf, it was not his best night, you know what I mean?  

He'd been out there with his wheelbarrow, he had his two artillery rounds, had his car battery, he's got his shovel, he's digging a hole and he looks up and there's five people with automatic weapons dressed in camouflage. 

And he realized immediately, his retirement plan was in jeopardy at that point.

And so he's shaking badly.  He wants a cigarette.  I decided not to give him my anti-smoking lecture for a change.  He looked like he needed it.  

So I had to light it for him.  We cut his handcuffs off, little plastic cuffs the Marines put on him. 

And I said, "What are you doing this for?"  You know?  "What's wrong with you?"  You know.  "You're a Sunni.  We're the Marines, we're the only friends you've got out here." 

And he started, you know, going on.  "Well, you Jews, you Americans, you want to steal our oil," and all this stuff.  And I said, "OK."  I said, "You're obviously an educated man.  I'm not going to waste my time listening to this drivel."

And he sat there for a minute.  The Marine guard moved into to take him away.  And he sat there, he's just sitting there, on the ground with me.  

And he said, "Can I sit here a minute?"  I said, "Sure."  And after a minute, he seemed to be a little calmer.  We got him a cup of coffee.  He's spilling it, he's still nervous.  

And I said, you know, "What's up?  Where’s your family at," you know?  They lived about 10 kilometers away.  He had a wife, two daughters. 

And we're talking for a little bit.  And he said, "You know, just I can't stand having foreign soldiers here."  I respect that.  I wouldn't want foreign soldiers in this town, you know what I mean?  I mean, that -- that's where you can connect with somebody.

And I said, "Well, I understand but, you know, you shouldn't have done that."  He said, "I guess I'm going to jail."  I said, "Oh, yeah.  You're going to be wearing an orange jumpsuit in Abu Ghraib for a good many years for this little stunt."

And "you're lucky you're not dead for" -- you know.  And he said, "Yeah."  He says -- but, now I want you all, especially you young people, to listen to me here.

He said, "General, do you think if I'm a model prisoner" -- you know what's coming, don't you? -- "could I someday immigrate to America?"

Think about that.  Think about that, that the hatred he felt was so much that he would go out and try to put a bomb in the road to kill us, but the example of America was so strong that if he could be sitting where you are today or have his son and daughter in that audience, he'd have given his eyes or teeth.  It wasn't just because we'd caught him right then.  This was deeper. 

And I was reminded, America's got two fundamental powers.  There's the power of intimidation and the military -- the U.S. military exists to warn people, "You take on America, and free men and women are going to fight like the dickens."  Power of intimidation. 

But there's also the power of inspiration.  And the power of inspiration could reach halfway around the world to the Euphrates River Valley and affect someone, no matter how blinded they were at that moment by a hatred.

I want you all to remember that because when you're out there, you're also going to be a part of the power of inspiration.  And you surrender that high ground -- that ethical high ground, that moral high ground, the historic legacy that we carry with us -- at our nation's peril.  

So you hold that close.  You take care of each other.  And thanks very much for having me here today.  We're going to now go to Q&A, OK?

And in Q&A, it gets really weird really fast if I'm looking at you and you're looking at me and no one's saying anything, OK?  So let's find out who's got the initiative and aggressiveness -- the two qualities we look for -- for petty officers and NCOs in the Naval service. 

Who's got the initiative and aggressiveness to ask the first question?