http://www.usubc.org/site/recent-news/remarks-by-john-sullivan--deputy-secretary-of-state

Good afternoon. It is an honor to be here in Ukraine, in Kyiv, and in particular, to be joined by so many students. It’s great to see you all here today. Thank you to the Deputy Director of the Diplomatic Academy Dr. Natalia Shulga, and to the Deputy Foreign Minister Serhii Korsunskyi, and to the Diplomatic Academy for hosting me.

Earlier today, I had a very moving experience. I visited the War Dead Wall of Honor and the Heavenly Hundred Memorial, on the fourth anniversary of the Revolution of Dignity. And it was a very moving experience for me to pay tribute to the bravery of those who have fought and sacrificed for the cause of freedom in Ukraine.

Those memorials remind us that, for 4 years, Ukraine has struggled against a corrupt and authoritarian past, while at the same time battling against an external aggressor. Since the revolution, the United States has looked for ways to honor those sacrifices and to help all Ukrainians build a better future. Because both struggles are far from over, and Ukrainians deserve and expect more than what has been achieved so far, I would like to offer some thoughts on key U.S.-Ukrainian priorities in the months ahead.

It was a hundred years ago that the Rada declared Ukraine a sovereign, independent state. Now 100 years later, I am honored to be here to affirm the United States’ unwavering support for an independent Ukraine – one that is stable, democratic, prosperous, and free. We remain committed to restoring Ukraine’s territorial integrity and ensuring the safety and security of its citizens.

Russia’s attempted annexation of Crimea and its invasion of eastern Ukraine are an attempt to cast doubt on Ukraine’s sovereignty, Ukraine’s unity, and the choice the Ukrainian people made to embrace Western values and Western institutions. Russia tries to justify its actions by saying it is defending Russian-speaking people, but its aggression has been disastrous for the people living in those regions. Russian speakers are suffering more in Donbas and Crimea than anywhere else, as a direct result of Russia’s actions. Many Russian-speaking Ukrainians are dying while fighting to defend Ukrainian territory and sovereignty against Russian troops and proxies in the Donbas. The UN reports that food insecurity among eastern Ukrainians, including Russian speakers, has doubled to 1.2 million in the last year, and 3.4 million people are critically in need of assistance.

Paradoxically, the Russian aggression designed to divide Ukraine has created great unity of spirit among the Ukrainian people, while deeply damaging Russia’s own reputation and standing in Ukraine – and on the world stage. And it’s cost Russia significant resources that would have been better dedicated to the welfare of its own citizens.

Given the high stakes, it’s important to be clear about U.S. policy towards the conflict: Crimea is Ukraine. The Donbas is Ukraine. We will never accept trading one region of Ukraine for another. We will never make a deal about Ukraine without Ukraine.

To advance these fundamental goals, Secretary Tillerson appointed Ambassador Kurt Volker as Special Representative for Ukraine Negotiations in July of last year. And his mandate is to break the deadlock with Russia over Ukraine. Secretary Tillerson has made it abundantly clear that Russia must take the first steps to de-escalate violence and resolve this conflict by fully implementing the Minsk Accords.

We will continue to stand with Ukraine until there is an end to Russian aggression. We will continue to draw on the range of measures we have at our disposal, including diplomacy, sanctions, and security assistance.

In 2016, Ukraine adopted a Strategic Defense Bulletin which provides a roadmap to NATO interoperability. The Rada will soon consider a draft law on national security, which would establish a defense and security sector in line with Euro-Atlantic principles and provide the legal basis for implementing Ukraine’s Strategic Defense Bulletin. It’s important that the Rada quickly adopt the Law on National Security that strengthens civilian and democratic oversight of the defense and security sector. Adopting such a law will deepen Ukraine’s alignment with Euro-Atlantic standards and help provide Ukraine with a professional, sustainable defense force capable of fully protecting Ukraine’s territorial integrity.

But even as Ukraine’s soldiers and diplomats fight for the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, there is another critical priority for all Ukrainians: fulfilling the dreams of the Maydan for a better, brighter future that is free of corruption.

The Ukrainian people expect Ukraine’s leaders to answer this call. The American people do, too.

A stable democratic, prosperous and free Ukraine will be less vulnerable to external threats and serve as a beacon to other nations facing Russian aggression. A free and economically successful Ukraine is one of the Kremlin’s biggest fears – and it is the Ukrainian people’s greatest hope. The United States has invested in Ukraine’s success by providing more than two billion dollars in assistance to achieve this. We support Ukraine because the United States believes Ukraine has great, untapped potential, and it is our interest that Ukraine become a successful, stable, secure, prosperous European nation.

We want you to prove your detractors wrong: to show that future elections are not an excuse to pause reform; that Ukraine will not allow itself to be divided by disinformation or divisive rhetoric; and that Ukraine will not be tempted into the false choice of stability or liberty. Ukraine can and must have both.

If Ukraine successfully wages a campaign to defeat corruption, it will disprove Russian propaganda depicting a failed Ukraine. We encourage you to push back against a corrupt and authoritarian past. Do not accept business as usual. Because you deserve better.

Ukraine’s fight against corruption is no less essential than its fight against Russian aggression. These two struggles are two sides of the same coin. Prevailing in both is a matter of national security. It is absolutely critical for Ukraine to press forward with deep, comprehensive, and timely reform.

Corruption eats away at the fabric of Ukrainian society in several ways:

It deters foreign investment and drags down GDP.
It discourages economic initiative and entrepreneurship.
It robs the state of tax funds paid by hardworking Ukrainians to line the pockets of the powerful.
It breeds poverty.
And, it crushes the hopes of those who play by the rules.

Fighting corruption is about fighting for a just and prosperous future for this country. It’s about creating a thriving, self-sufficient market economy, based on the rule of law for the benefit of all Ukrainians and to attract foreign – and domestic – investment that creates jobs. Winning the fight against corruption is the only way Ukraine will truly be prosperous and free.

The Ukrainian government must implement reforms to ensure that all are equal before the law; that’s what “dignity” means. Ukraine’s success in strengthening the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office could not be more important. These independent, anti-corruption institutions are instrumental to defeat graft, and they need to be well-resourced and protected to do so. Ukraine also needs a genuinely independent Anti-Corruption Court – one that is fully compliant with Venice Commission recommendations.

An independent and successful Anti-Corruption court is fundamental for Ukraine. But Ukraine must also stay on track with its IMF program. The signal a successful IMF program sends to the international community is that Ukraine is serious about reforms. Serious about fighting corruption, serious about privatizing state owned enterprises, serious about energy reform, serious about maintaining economic stability and creating the growth and investment it needs to cultivate and care for its most valuable resource: the Ukrainian people.

We applaud you for taking bold education, healthcare, and pension reforms in recent months. Change is always difficult. Sometimes it can even be scary. But these reforms will deliver tremendous value to the people of Ukraine, and will help them build the kind of country they yearn for.

We also applaud the adoption of reforms deregulating certain business sectors and increasing tax transparency. However, deeper reforms are needed to lift the economy over the long-term. And comprehensive judicial and law enforcement reform, which Ukraine has embarked on is the key. I’ve already mentioned the Anti-Corruption reform. Also vital is establishing a fully empowered body to investigate financial crimes.

The Prime Minister just told me about a package of over 30 new draft laws that he expects will improve the business environment once implemented. That’s good for the economy, and it should create better jobs. Ukrainian people expect Ukraine’s leadership to live up to its own promises to achieve the reforms that will allow Ukraine to move toward implementing the promise of the Revolution of Dignity.

The task at hand requires contributions from all of society – not just those in elected office. And yesterday’s anniversary is a good reminder of how this started: the Revolution of Dignity happened because of the bravery and leadership of ordinary people, and of civil society.

Outside the halls of power, the vibrant civil society in Ukraine must play a prominent role in leading the country into the future. Ukraine needs a civil society that continues to be active by contributing to policy, holding authorities accountable, and demanding the institutional architecture for long-lasting reforms.

But it is important to remember that while civil society plays an important role, civil society is not the government. Civil society activists, no matter how prominent, do not control the government resources and should not be mandated to participate in the e-declaration system, which was set up to hold government officials – those who are responsible for state resources – accountable to citizens and taxpayers for their actions.

For Ukraine to be a successful democracy – strong and secure – it needs a robust civil society that will work in tandem with the government.

In conclusion, I want to underline that the United States stands with the people of Ukraine in your fight for security and the integrity of your system of governance.

We encourage Ukraine’s leaders to renew their commitment to uproot corruption, and we urge its people, and most critically, its young people – all of you – to keep fighting for a strong and democratic Ukraine – one where liberties are protected and where economic growth and jobs will flourish.

On this fourth anniversary of the Revolution of Dignity, we look back to honor the sacrifices Ukrainians have made and look forward to the progress to come. We believe in the change that is happening across Ukraine, and we look forward to continuing our partnership, and working with the leaders and citizens of this great country to deliver the bright and enduring future Ukraine’s people deserve.

Thank you.

https://www.state.gov/s/d/17/275128.htm

Thank you, Heather, for that kind introduction. I have one qualification to Heather’s remarks: I am from Boston and grew up as a hockey player, a hockey coach, a hockey fan, so I’ve spent a lot of time both in my youth and then when I was coaching my children’s youth hockey teams in Minnesota – Brainerd, Red Wing, Winona, Rochester – I’ve been all over the state, been in many of your hockey rinks, tournaments, summer hockey camps, and Minnesotans, as Heather said, are just the most wonderful, sweetest persons, except when they hop over the boards to take a shift in a hockey game and then they’re pretty nasty. (Laughter.) So I can speak from personal experience on that.

But I’m delighted to see so many people here to support this bid and all of those who have played an instrumental role in the United States bid for Expo 2023. I want to recognize the foreign diplomatic corps are present this afternoon, as many of the foreign ambassadors who are here. Thanks to all of you for being here and for standing behind this important cause.

Four months ago, I met with many of you at the department as one of my first public appearances as Deputy Secretary of State, at which time I spoke about the United States initial efforts to bring the World’s Fair back here to our country. I’m thrilled to report that since that time, the U.S. proposal has advanced to the final round. Our teams have been very busy highlighting why the United States, and more particularly Minnesota, is the ideal location with the perfect theme for that state – health and wellness – to host the World’s Fair or Expo in 2023.

As Heather mentioned, the expo is a public-private partnership, one that’s driven by grassroots efforts of the Minnesota World’s Fair Bid Committee under the dedicated leadership of the committee president and chief executive officer, Mark Ritchie. Thank you, Mark, for all your work. Many of you know Mark, who is the former Minnesota secretary of state, and in a moment he’ll provide us with the latest update on the bid, including details on the recent announcement of the proposed expo site in Minnesota.

Before Mark comes up here, I’d like to highlight the impressive work done thus far to effectively mobilize international support for this important commercial and diplomatic initiative. I want to thank our terrific Under Secretary for Political Affairs Tom Shannon, who himself is a Minnesota native, and his colleagues from the regional bureaus present here today for their diplomatic engagement in support of the expo. Many have moved mountains to get us here to this point.

In May, Congress passed legislation by unanimous consent authorizing the United States to rejoin the Bureau of International Expositions, or BIE, which is the Paris-based organization that governs participation in the World’s Fair. Secretary Tillerson then signed the treaty accession documents that were deposited in Paris. Thank you to the Minnesota congressional delegation, as well as the leaders of the House Foreign Affairs and Senate Foreign Relations Committee, for getting this legislation passed. You’ll hear later in the program from two members of the Minnesota delegation that are with us today: U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and U.S. Representative Tom Emmer. Thanks to all of you for your help in getting us to where we are today.

In June, the Bureau of International Exposition’s general assembly voted to advance the U.S. bid to the final round that will be held in Paris on November 15th.

Earlier this month, the United States once again became a voting member of the Bureau of International Expositions, and I look forward personally to traveling to Paris next month to cast the U.S. vote in support of this expo, the first in more than 15 years. (Applause.)

My colleagues in the United States and around the world, including my former colleagues and friends from the Department of Commerce, have spoken to you and representatives in your capital about the Minnesota-USA bid. There is strong federal support for this public-private partnership in what would be the first World’s Fair that’d take place in the United States in almost 40 years.

BIE delegates have attended U.S.-hosted expo events in Paris, Brussels, and London, and many of your consuls general in the United States have attended expo events in Minnesota and Chicago as well.

I understand that several of you will join Deputy Chief of Protocol Cam Henderson in the Office of the Chief of Protocol’s Experience America trip to Minnesota in the near future.

For those ambassadors or charges who have not yet signed up for the trip, please speak with protocol today before you leave. It’s not too late to join. We want you to experience Minnesota as we seek to bring the world there in 2023.

We can all agree that there’s something inspiring about a World’s Fair, a time when the world comes together to celebrate, explore, and discover the promises and opportunities of new technologies and partnerships; in this case, to focus on the increasingly important areas of health and wellness.

Minnesota, home to some amazing medical technology companies and a region regularly ranked as one of the healthiest metropolitan regions as a – regions in the country, is an ideal location for such an expo. The Smithsonian’s American History Museum even included Minnesota’s Medical Alley as one of the featured regions in their current exhibition, Places of Innovation.

I still fondly remember my experience as a child when my parents took me to the New York World’s Fair in Queens in 1964. For those of you who have not been to the Queens Museum in New York City, there’s a great World’s Fair exhibit that captures that time and experience through a fantastic scale model of the city. It’s really something to see.

If you haven’t been to a World’s Fair yet – and I stress “yet” – I hope that we will have the opportunity to come together in Minnesota in 2023 for the Healthy People, Healthy Planet Expo. However, in order for that to happen, we need your support, and we need your vote on November 15 in Paris at the BIE general assembly.

So again, I thank you all for coming this afternoon and appreciate your ongoing efforts to make the 2023 expo in Minnesota a reality. Thanks very much.

https://www.state.gov/s/d/17/274725.htm

Thank you, Thomas, for that introduction. We discovered in talking this morning that if you spend enough time in government you overlap and meet so many people. Thomas and I spent time together at OPIC about 10 years ago.
So good morning, everyone, and thanks for all of you being here and supporting this event. I am encouraged to see so many representatives from various U.S. Government agencies, including, of course, our colleagues from USAID, but from other government agencies, the private sector, academia, nonprofits, and foreign embassies. Your presence underscores the importance of this forum in gathering a group of people from every sector to talk about this exciting technology, so thank you for being here.

Blockchain has the potential to become a transformative technology of our lifetime. It is increasing its footprint in our daily lives every day and is expected to play a major role in trade, business, healthcare management, and finance, and we hope at the State Department as well. We are – we’re – in fact, we are quite confident of that. Through Blockchain we can track movements of goods in the shipping industry; we can verify someone’s ID; we can safely transfer money and payments across borders in real time.

It’s no wonder that Blockchain technology, a market that could grow to more than $40 billion by 2022 according to at least one estimate, has captured the attention of governments and international organizations worldwide. Estonia, a leader in this technology, has embraced the use of Blockchain to offer government-issued digital IDs. Last year, the Georgian Government launched a project in partnership with the private sector to register land titles using a private Blockchain. In the UAE, the government has started a goal of using Blockchain technologies to create a paperless Dubai by 2020. The Singaporean Government has also partnered with the private sector to open a center for Blockchain technology. And finally, the UN is working with a number of companies to create Blockchain pilot projects that help vulnerable populations, such as refugees, by developing economic identities and delivering humanitarian aid more efficiently.

So Blockchain technology is on the move around the world. It is, therefore, essential that we better understand this cutting-edge technology, as it becomes more ubiquitous in our economy. Today, as we consider this far-reaching technology and its potential applications across all sectors, we should have a couple of goals in mind.

First, speaking on behalf of the U.S. Government, we want to educate ourselves about how we can better leverage Blockchain technology. With so many groups here, we recognize the opportunity to explore together the potential applications of this technology, to strengthen our national security, and promote greater economic prosperity. And in particular, we’re excited about the many ways Blockchain technology could also increase transparency and accountability here at the State Department and across the federal government. In the simplest terms, we’re always open to exploring new ways to preform government functions more efficiently and effectively.

This forum also has implications, as Thomas suggested, for our ongoing redesign efforts at the State Department and USAID. We’re interested to learn whether Blockchain technology could have direct applications to many of the key features of our proposed redesign plan – for example, in maximizing the impact and accountability of foreign assistance. Two major challenges in foreign assistance that Blockchain technology could address are, first, corruption, fraud, or misappropriation of funds and, second, inefficiencies within the aid delivery process itself. This forum will include discussions of Blockchain-based aid-tracking systems that promise to bring more transparency to foreign assistance dollars from the donor to the beneficiary. That’s incredibly important to our work here.

Blockchain technology could also play an important role in improving our IT platforms. A breakout group this afternoon will evaluate the attributes of Blockchain technology that are relevant to cyber security, encryption and hashing of data, immutable records, and decentralized and distributed networks. Protecting our cyber infrastructure and providing resilient and relevant technology to the women and men of the State Department and USAID is crucial to helping them do their jobs efficiently all around the world, 24 hours a day.

In addition to learning more about your experiences with this technology and how we can better utilize it at the department and across the federal government, our second goal for this forum is to support public-private collaboration by providing an environment that will enable those potential partnerships to develop. The global challenges we face are too complex for any single entity to tackle alone. We need each other. Through these partnerships, we can take advantage of the creativity, unique capacity, and resources of all sectors to advance our diplomacy and development objectives. Nowhere is this partnership more relevant than with the new technologies that are quickly evolving.

So we look forward to spending the day exploring ways we can further collaborate and build more public-private partnerships. Blockchain technology is not a panacea; it’s not the answer to every problem. But we’re certainly hopeful that the State Department and the federal government can leverage this technology to make us more efficient and better able to serve the American people. And we know, without a doubt, that it will take all of those represented in this room and many more working together to harness this technology for more efficient and effective diplomacy and a stronger, more resilient United States.

Thank you all for being with us today. And I look forward to our discussions at this forum.

https://www.state.gov/s/d/17/276555.htm

Good morning and thank you Chairman Royce, Ranking Member Engel, and Members of the Committee for the opportunity to speak with you about U.S. counterterrorism efforts in Africa. Last month, Secretary Tillerson hosted an Africa Ministerial that included delegations from 37 countries, the African Union, and members of the private sector and civil society. Advancing our deep and expanding counterterrorism cooperation on the continent was a major focus of the ministerial, along with increasing trade, good governance, and protection of human rights.

To reinforce these priorities, I traveled to Sudan, Tunisia, and Nigeria two weeks ago to engage our willing and increasingly capable counterterrorism partners.

In Sudan, senior leaders stressed their interest in working with the United States to strengthen regional security, and promote greater peace and stability throughout the world. We are encouraged by the Sudanese government’s willingness to work with us to eliminate the threat posed by ISIS and other terrorist groups operating in the region, as well as the government’s commitment to cut all military and trade ties with North Korea.

In Tunisia, I met with both the Tunisian and Libyan governments. Tunisia, like Morocco and Algeria, has made significant strides in preventing the spread of ISIS and other terrorist groups within its borders through the implementation of military and paramilitary operations, greater law enforcement cooperation among allies and partners, and improved measures to reintegrate returning foreign terrorist fighters.

Libya is perhaps our greatest counterterrorism challenge in Africa. ISIS and other terrorist groups have sought to exploit political instability and find safe haven in Libya’s vast ungoverned spaces, making the country both a source of and destination for foreign terrorist fighters. We continue to empower the Libyan government to address these challenges. Libyan Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj’s government and its aligned forces have been reliable partners in countering these threats – and are in regular communication with the Administration. President Trump and Secretaries Tillerson and Mattis met with the Prime Minister just last week to discuss a range of issues, including counterterrorism. We also strongly back the efforts of UN Special Representative Salamé to facilitate a political solution and prevent a civil conflict.

Nigeria, the last stop on my visit, is a critical U.S. partner that faces a number of threats. Nigeria leads the regional fight against Boko Haram, ISIS-West Africa, and other terrorist groups that continue to fuel one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world. Since 2009, terrorist groups in the region have killed more than 20,000 people and abducted thousands of women and girls, causing at least 2 million people to flee their homes. This instability has affected the larger Lake Chad Basin region, prompting the creation of a Multinational Joint Task Force comprised of Benin, Cameroon, Chad, and Niger –all partners that have asked for U.S. assistance to root out terrorism.

We consider it in our national interest to support Nigeria and its neighbors in this fight. To ensure our continued cooperation, we have also underlined to these partners – and those across the continent - that their security forces must be professionalized, brought into an accountable chain of command, and held responsible for human rights abuses.

These principles are also the backbone of our engagement in Somalia, where we are committed to helping Somalia reform its security sector and improve governance, with a focus on reducing corrupt practices and increasing transparency and accountability. In coordination with that effort, U.S. forces are committed to using all authorized and appropriate measures to protect Americans and to disable terrorist threats such as al-Shabaab and ISIS.

Somalia is also a prime example of how we are working with the African Union, the United Nations, and other multilateral organizations to counter terrorism, promote stability, and support post-conflict peacebuilding. Regional cooperation has already produced results, as we have seen in the creation of the G-5 by Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania, and Niger in 2014. Last month, Secretary Tillerson announced our commitment to provide an additional $60 million in support to the G-5 Sahel Joint Force countries. This is in addition to the more than $800 million in bilateral assistance we have provided to G-5 countries since 2012 to help develop effective security forces.

In closing, I want to underscore a message that I made clear during my trip: while United States is the largest supporter of peacekeeping and counterterrorism efforts across Africa, the Secretary and I firmly believe that traditional counterterrorism efforts alone are not enough. Economic reform, good governance, and a respect for human rights must be prioritized to establish and maintain peace and security throughout the continent.

We will continue to support our partners’ efforts to strengthen democratic institutions; improve citizen security and justice; respect human rights; stimulate economic growth, trade, health, and investment; and promote development and education. The United States continues to emphasize respect for human rights as a fundamental part of our counterterrorism strategy, which includes thorough Leahy vetting of our security force partners.

Thank you again for giving me the chance to speak with you. I look forward to your questions.

https://www.state.gov/s/d/17/276221.htm

Thank you, Ambassador Kozak. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for being here today. I’m delighted to be here, honored to be able to speak before you.
Each year on November 25th, we commemorate the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women and observe the accompanying 16 days of activism against gender-based violence.

Those 16 days of activism against gender violence offer a global platform for governments, organizations, individuals around the world to mobilize and call attention to the urgent need to end violence against women and girls across the board.

As Ambassador Kozak mentioned, I was just in Nigeria a couple of weeks ago and met with civil society groups, survivors, women and girls – young girls, teenage girls – who have endured just the most horrific crimes against them and their families. And so it’s a compelling issue for any person, but for us as Americans in particular.

Gender-based violence harms individuals, violates the most basic of our inalienable human rights. From sexual assault, early or forced marriage and rape, to dating violence and so-called honor killings, women and girls disproportionately face violence around the world. The statistics, unfortunately, are both shocking and saddening. An estimated one out of every three women worldwide has been subject to violence, rape, or other abuse in her lifetime. According to the World Health Organization, at least 30 percent of women worldwide have experienced this kind of violence at the hands of a partner. According to the – UN Women, violence against women causes more death and disability for women and girls between the ages of 15 and 44 than cancer, traffic accidents, malaria, and war combined.

Finally, in the United States, nearly one out of every three women – and one out of every six men – has experienced some form of sexual violence. Beyond the obvious and direct harm to the individual, violence against women damages society as a whole and stifles or reverses progress made in economic development, health, and security. For instance, radical terrorist organization, including – organizations, including those which we unfortunately have experienced within Nigeria, directly target women and girls to achieve their ideological and tactical objectives. These attacks on girls and their schools prevent them from receiving an education by keeping them out of the classroom and alienate them from reaching their full potential as citizens, entrepreneurs, leaders, or just as human beings.

And this violence doesn’t merely impact a victim; it causes a chain reaction, further contributing to the cycles of poverty and instability we witness in so many countries, impacting not only individuals, but entire societies. Whether it occurs inside or outside of the workplace, violence against women can limit women’s ability to fully participate in the economy. It’s not an easy topic to talk about – it’s often painful, it’s emotionally draining to be with the survivors – but we must face it head-on if we’re going to make any progress.

And one of the most important steps to ending this global problem is engaging everyone, including men and boys. Violence against women negatively affects men and boys in two ways: directly, as survivors of violence, and indirectly, through their exposure to it. Study after study has shown that when violence is witnessed or experienced, it’s likely to be repeated. Gender-based violence is cyclical. Men who witness violence at an early age are twice as likely to be perpetrators of violence in the future. Similarly, girls who experience abusive relationships early in their lives are at an increased risk of being victimized by others later in life. Engaging men and boys as loving, supportive, and involved husbands and fathers is critical to achieving sustained transformational change.

Since its founding in Brazil 20 years ago, our partner, Promundo, working alongside a number of other dedicated partners, has helped to prevent violence in more than 40 countries through high-impact research and evaluation, targeted advocacy efforts, and evidence-based educational programming. Programs like Promundo engage men and boys in the fight against gender-based violence by growing male leadership and promoting gender equality. Promundo encourages men to be acting – active, loving, and equitable caregivers in their roles as fathers. To this end, Promundo has established the MenCare campaign to promote men’s involvement as dedicated fathers and caregivers, strengthen families, improve gender equality, and promote better health for the entire family. Promundo has also begun International Men And Gender Equality Surveys, or IMAGES, which measure men’s and women’s attitudes and practices around gender equality and violence against women and girls.

And today, we’re excited to celebrate the launch of Voices Against Violence, or VAV – a public-private partnership with the Avon Foundation that provides a comprehensive approach to combating violence against women, and engages men and boys to break the cycle, especially in conflict areas. And it’s in these conflict areas that the targeted use of violence against women, especially sexual violence and exploitation, is used as a tool of war and sadly perpetrated far too often. From conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Colombia, and Liberia, to more recent violence by ISIS, Boko Haram, and security forces in Myanmar, we see time and again that women are disproportionately affected in times of crisis.

VAV works to engage men and boys at – on every level. It brings together key stakeholders to leverage skills and best practices that can be utilized globally. By ensuring men and boys are involved in training to prevent violence, it helps other men recognize that this is not just a women’s issue and that we need everyone’s help to make a change.

VAV has begun to conduct regional training on combating violence against women, inviting male judicial actors, law enforcement officials, civil society, and activists to create male champions and advocate for better protections for survivors. Male champions are imperative to breaking the cycle of violence.

VAV will serve as an effective new tool for embassies and our bureaus here at State to not only assist survivors of gender-based violence but also to break the cycle of violence by working directly with men and boys on this issue. Additionally, VAV will help the State Department undertake important initiatives like responding to acid attacks, preventing female genital mutilation, and putting an end to honor killings so that we can protect women across the globe who have nowhere else to turn.

Incorporating men and boys to become stout agents of change and advocates to end violence against women and children is an essential element to solving a global problem. We are making progress, but it’s just the beginning. There is still much more to be done. And by continuing to work together to promote gender equality and eliminate gender bias, I’m confident that we can make great strides in breaking this cycle of violence.

On behalf of Secretary Tillerson, I want to thank you for coming here today. We hope that these important discussions will bring us at least one step closer in our efforts to engage men and boys and put an end to a problem that affects all of us. Thank you very much.

https://www.state.gov/s/d/17/274715.htm

Good afternoon. First, let me thank Prime Minister May for convening this important meeting and for her and the Secretary General’s leadership on this important issue.

As Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump just said so eloquently, combating human trafficking is a foreign policy priority for the United States. We are delighted to take part in this event as we shine a light on the crime of modern slavery.

The United States Trafficking Victims Protection Act provides a comprehensive framework for us to effectively combat human trafficking. Last year, our Department of Justice secured convictions against 439 traffickers – an increase of almost fifty percent from the previous year.

And with the creation of a national advisory council composed entirely of survivors, we hear directly from those most affected by the crime on how to improve our anti-trafficking policies and programs.

But we recognize that despite this progress, we cannot slow down – either at home or abroad.

Earlier this year we highlighted a new Department of State initiative – the Program to End Modern Slavery – which is designed to produce a substantial reduction in the prevalence of modern slavery around the world.

Last week, Secretary Tillerson announced that the Department awarded its first grant of $25 million under this Program to the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery, and President Trump also referred to the Global Fund in his remarks before the General Assembly today.

The Global Fund will focus on transformative programs in two key areas:

Country partnerships that feature specific government commitments; and

Industry partnerships to develop cross-border solutions to reduce and prevent forced labor in supply chains.

The Global Fund will also inform and measure the progress of efforts around the world by investing in research on prevalence reduction methodologies and a public knowledge hub where information and good practices can be shared.

In addition to this $25 million investment in the Global Fund, the U.S. Congress has made another $25 million available for the Department's Program to End Modern Slavery in the coming year.

Together with other projects this year and next, the State Department and USAID will invest more than $180 million in results-oriented projects to fight human trafficking globally.

I want to thank Prime Minister May for her steadfast support and for the generous financial contribution to the Global Fund she announced today on behalf of the United Kingdom. We urge other governments and private donors to consider contributions to this cause as well. By working together, we can stop human trafficking in the 21st century. Thank you.

https://www.state.gov/s/d/17/275752.htm

I am honored to join all of you here today. I would like to first thank the leaders of the Al-Neelain Mosque for hosting us today and for their gracious hospitality. Many people from different faiths, backgrounds, and cultures have joined us here today to talk about the important work they are undertaking in Sudan to embrace tolerance and further the goal of mutual respect among all citizens.

It was a great privilege to spend time with many of you earlier this morning and to learn about the many ways that interfaith groups are working together to forge a new path forward in Sudan and to move away from divisions based on religion and culture. Our discussion was particularly significant as we continue to build a new relationship between the United States and Sudan. I want you to know that the U.S. government and international community stand with you in this important work.

This is my first visit to your beautiful country. Secretary Tillerson asked me to travel to Khartoum to speak with you and your government about the growing importance of our bilateral relationship. I am here today to underscore one key aspect of that relationship: the shared values of mutual respect, tolerance, and religious freedom.

I would like to share a bit of my own personal history on these topics, as they are central to who I am. I am the grandson of Irish-Catholic immigrants who arrived in Boston, Massachusetts in the 1880s. At the time they arrived – and for many decades that followed – Catholics in the United States faced widespread prejudice based on their religion. When John F. Kennedy – another Catholic from my home state – ran for President of the United States in 1960, he even had to give a prominent speech to reassure the nation that his faith was compatible with the duties of the office of President.

In the United States today, recalling such history seems quaint. But it was not easy, and it took many decades. Eventually divisions were narrowed and mutual understanding between Catholics and Protestants in the United States improved substantially. Today, it is nearly unthinkable that one’s status as a Catholic in the United States would serve as a disadvantage to one’s ambitions for life.

The American experience in this regard underscores that respect for the human dignity of every person – regardless of religious belief or origin – is a key component of not only protecting human rights, but also fostering a society that can flourish, build upon each other’s strengths, and move forward together.

This brings me to one of the purposes of my visit: to make clear that the United States remains deeply committed to positive engagement with Sudan on a wide range of topics – including the protection of religious freedom and the promotion of other human rights throughout your country.

This path of closer engagement is new for both of us.

In 2015, after decades of strained bilateral relations, the United States began a measured engagement with your government to urge greater progress in various peace processes and to seek positive changes for the people of Sudan – regardless of religion, class, or ethnic background.

In June 2016, Sudan and the United States initiated a historic framework for the path forward, the so-called Five Track Engagement Plan.

This plan outlined five priority areas for constructive engagement, and required the Sudanese government to:

1) cease hostilities in conflict regions, including the aerial bombardment in Darfur and the Two Areas of South Kordofan and Blue Nile states;
2) improve humanitarian access throughout Sudan so that aid groups could provide vital resources and assistance needed by the Sudanese people;
3) refrain from interfering in South Sudan and instead play a constructive role in regional peace efforts;
4) cooperate with regional efforts to counter the Lord’s Resistance Army, and;
5) build U.S.-Sudanese cooperation on counter terrorism, and make both of our countries safer.

In each of those five areas, the Government of Sudan has made measureable progress. As a result, last month, the United States formally revoked certain U.S. sanctions on Sudan to open a new chapter in our bilateral relationship.

We hope that these positive developments are emblematic of a positive trajectory for the future of our bilateral relationship. But, we also recognize that completion of the Five Track Engagement Plan is only a first step on a longer road toward fully normalizing our bilateral relations. More hard work is required – from both of our countries. 

The United States is eager to see Sudan make progress in a range of areas in the months and years ahead, as we work towards a new framework for bilateral engagement. In short, the closer our countries become, the higher our expectations for Sudan will become.

This engagement will proceed on several fronts. For Sudan to become a full partner of the United States, it must seek peace within its borders and with its neighbors, and cooperate reliably with the international community to improve security and prosperity in the region and adhere to long-standing international norms. 

In addition, supporting human rights, including religious freedom, has been, and will continue to be, a critical part of the United States’ bilateral engagement with Sudan.

In the United States, the protection of the basic rights and freedoms of our citizens is fundamental to who we are as a nation. The Bill of Rights in the U.S. Constitution – our foundational legal document – sets forth protections for individual liberties and prohibitions on government power in these realms, including freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of assembly. These are among our most cherished rights as Americans, and the protection of human rights and the dignity of the individual has served as a key basis of U.S. foreign policy throughout our history.

This history has shown that U.S. partnerships around the world are strongest and most durable with countries that take the necessary steps to protect the same basic human rights and freedoms that are central in the United States.

In the years ahead, one measure of the strength of the U.S.-Sudanese relationship will be improvements in Sudan’s respect for human rights and, in particular, religious freedom. Indeed, one of the reasons I am speaking to you today – at the Al-Neelain Mosque, with Sudanese Muslim and Christian leaders – is to emphasize that the United States cares deeply about religious freedom in Sudan.

By taking steps to enhance protections for religious freedom, the Government will make the entire country more stable and secure.

Interfaith understanding, respect, and the protection of religious freedom and other human rights are bulwarks against extremism. Religious tolerance is a building block of peace and security and is the mark of responsible governance. The treatment of members of religious minorities is often the ultimate indicator of a government’s commitment to these values.

When governments favor a specific religious, ethnic, or sectarian group over others, violent radicalism thrives. We also know that governments that sponsor or condone violence against their own people are far more likely to see violent extremism growing in their country.

But by protecting every person’s human rights, society is more just, more free, and more stable for everyone.

For these reasons, we urge the Government of Sudan to protect basic freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly, association, religion, and movement. The United States calls on Sudan to protect political opposition members, human rights defenders, civil society groups, and the media. We also urge the government to hold accountable all who are responsible for human rights abuses.

On the issue of religious freedom, the United States has continued to designate Sudan as a “Country of Particular Concern.” The State Department’s annual International Religious Freedom Report noted instances of the arrest, detention, and intimidation of religious leaders, and the denial of permits for the construction of new churches; restrictions on non-Muslim religious groups from entering the country; and the censorship of religious material.

During my discussions with senior leaders over the last 6 months, we have welcomed the Sudanese Government’s expressed desire to take steps to overcome its designation as a Country of Particular Concern. However, for that to occur, we must see concrete and demonstrable progress through better policies and improved laws.

We have communicated these steps to the Sudanese Government through a proposed “Action Plan,” which we hope Sudan will approve and enact. As an immediate confidence-building measure, we have suggested that the Government convene a roundtable with members of religious minority groups about property registration issues, as certain government officials have cited registration issues as the rationale for the demolitions of places of worship. The Government of Sudan, including the Federal States, should also immediately suspend demolitions of places of worship, including churches and mosques.

President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Secretary Tillerson have made clear that the protection and promotion of religious freedom is a foreign policy priority of the Administration. As we move forward in our relationship, the United States will not ignore violations of human rights, including the right to religious freedom.

The United States is ready and willing to assist in these efforts. To that end, we will explore opportunities to work with religious leaders who build bridges through tolerance and interfaith understanding to counter extremism – like those leaders with me here today – while we bring in new voices to further conversations about accountability and inclusive governance.

The United States will also review our people-to-people programs, such as the Young African Leaders Initiative and International Visitor Leadership Program, to identify ways to maximize partnerships and exchanges with the people of Sudan. I am pleased to see so many alumni here this morning as a testament to the success of these programs.

Indeed, we believe that any country-to-country relationship begins on the individual level. We are committed to finding more avenues for Sudanese religious and youth leaders to advance interfaith efforts for peace.

Before I conclude, I also want to touch on a few other important aspects of the U.S.-Sudan relationship.

We recognize that there are ongoing impediments, including certain commercial and financial restrictions, on the bilateral relationship between our countries and a lack of normalized diplomatic relations. Further strengthening of our bilateral relationship will require a renewed commitment by the Government of Sudan on other policies beyond religious freedom.

In particular, while restraint and a cessation of attacks in conflict areas is a positive step forward, we now expect the Sudanese government to move closer to a permanent ceasefire that will create an opening for a truly inclusive political dialogue in Darfur and the Two Areas.

The armed opposition must of course also denounce hostilities and make a commitment to a negotiated peace. All parties who have signed the African Union roadmap must live up to their commitment to engage in dialogue toward a resolution of the conflicts and a comprehensive and inclusive political process, and those who have yet to join the process must do so, as there is no other path to peace and improving the conditions of the people living in the conflict areas. As a first step, the opposition should accept the U.S. proposal to facilitate humanitarian aid in conflict areas across lines to help those who are suffering the most.

Moving forward, we also encourage the Government to improve cooperation with UNAMID – the AU-UN Hybrid Mission in Darfur. UNAMID protects civilians, facilitates humanitarian assistance, and mediates conflict at the local and national level in Darfur.

This mission – which the United States strongly supports – will continue to be instrumental to Sudan’s future and greater collaboration with the UN is a win-win proposition for the people of Sudan.

Violence, war, and ongoing instability are holding Sudan back from a future with great potential. Conflict has affected millions. Hundreds of thousands of Sudanese have been displaced and killed. It is time for a path to reconciliation and peace. Your country’s prosperity and the security of future generations depend on it.

The United States calls on all parties to take this opportunity to define a way forward that will help all of Sudan’s people.

Finally, the United States is also looking for the Sudanese Government to help counter international security threats. In that regard, I very much appreciate and applaud Sudan’s public statements condemning North Korean provocations, and Sudan’s full commitment to compliance with the UN Security Council Resolutions regarding North Korea. Finally, the statements yesterday by the Government of Sudan affirming that it will cut off all ties with North Korea is most welcome.

Let me conclude by noting that I am deeply encouraged by the interactions I have had with the Government and with civil society representatives during my visit here. The religious leaders with whom I met earlier today are a deep source of inspiration. Indeed, there are challenges that lie ahead, but we should all have reason for hope and optimism about the growing engagement between our two countries.

Thank you for your hospitality and kindness. I look forward to many more opportunities to further our goals of a more peaceful and prosperous Sudan – a Sudan that respects the rights of persons of every faith.