http://russialist.org/transcript-statement-of-jon-huntsman-nominee-to-be-u-s-ambassador-to-the-russian-federation-before-the-senate-committee-on-foreign-relations/

It is an honor to appear before you today as President Trump’s nominee to be the United States Ambassador to the Russian Federation. I want to thank the President
for his confidence in me and for the opportunity – with your approval – to represent the American people during a critical period in U.S.-Russian relations. In addition, I want to express my gratitude to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson for supporting my nomination.

I also want to take a moment to thank my family – my wife, Mary Kaye, and my children Mary Anne, Abby, Liddy, Jon, Will, Gracie and Asha. Their love and support has sustained me through the many phases of my life and the different hats I have worn in both the public and the private sector. I could not undertake this journey without them. At our family’s core lies the belief that service is the price we pay for citizenship in this great country.

I have had the privilege of serving as Ambassador before – to China and to Singapore. I am fully cognizant of the profound responsibilities a Chief of Mission must assume. During my previous service, including as Governor of the great state of Utah, and in the private sector, I have prided myself on leading dynamic teams and achieving important goals by bringing together individuals from different backgrounds and different viewpoints. If confirmed, I look forward to working with colleagues from the State Department and all other U.S. government agencies to advance the interests of the American people.

While I am confident my previous experiences prepare me for this sensitive diplomatic mission, I am under no illusion that serving as the U.S. Ambassador to the Russian Federation will be easy or simple. Our relationship with Russia is among the most consequential and complex foreign-policy challenges we face. As a nuclear superpower and permanent member of the UN Security Council, we have no choice but to deal with Russia on a range of issues touching on global stability and security. Yet we also need to recognize that today, contrary to Helsinki Final Act principles and international law, Russia continues to threaten stability in Europe, including by violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its neighbors. Russia also restricts the human rights of its people. There is no question that the Russian government interfered in the U.S. election last year and Moscow continues to meddle in the democratic processes of our friends and allies. Finally, Russia is disregarding its arms-control obligations and commitments.

As we work to balance these multiple challenges, I appreciate the leadership and insight that this committee has demonstrated on Russia and, if confirmed, I welcome the opportunity to collaborate with all of you in the months and years ahead.

If confirmed, I will focus on four primary approaches:

First, I will engage Russian government officials, from the highest tiers to the local level, to advance American interests. Key among our goals are defeating ISIS, countering terrorism, upholding arms control and non-proliferation obligations and commitments, finding a political solution to the conflict in Syria, and resolving the crisis in Ukraine in a way that respects Ukraine’s sovereignty and restores its territorial integrity.

I will also not hesitate to remind government officials that they are accountable for their actions. Exhibit A is the fact that interference in the U.S. election has led directly to the current low level of trust in the relationship. The views of Congress were heard clearly on this point in the near-unanimous passage of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act.

Second, I will work to protect the interests of the American people, to include the U.S. business community, scholars, tourists and other American visitors who spend time in Russia and engage its citizens. I believe people-to-people exchanges and private interactions are an important way to show that our disagreements are with the government of Russia, not with its people.

Third, I will seek out Russian people from across all walks of life to share perspectives, to relay American values, and to deepen my already growing appreciation for Russia’s rich and fascinating history and culture. As I have done in previous assignments, I look forward to meeting with civil society leaders, including those in the religious and human rights community.

While the Russian government has sought to limit U.S. public diplomacy, our diplomatic mission in Russia continues to engage ordinary Russians and thought leaders and maintains a diverse outreach program. I plan to take part in that effort, as I strongly believe cultural understanding is enriched by an open and respectful exchange of thoughts and ideas. I look forward to meeting as many Russian citizens as possible during my travels throughout the country.

Fourth, but certainly not last in importance, I will work to ensure the safety and security of my team, who work tirelessly on behalf of the American people. Despite Russia’s actions against U.S. mission diplomatic staffing, the team – both the American and the Russian staff – continues to serve with professionalism and an unwavering commitment under difficult conditions.

I will be honored to work side by side with the mission team to ensure the continued stellar work of the U.S. diplomatic and consular mission. I also want to extend my personal appreciation for those Americans and Russians whose service at the U.S. Mission in Russia have been cut short by the Russian government’s unfortunate decision.

Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ranking Member, and Members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today. I welcome your comments and questions.

https://ru.usembassy.gov/ambassador-jon-huntsman-speaks-at-media-roundtable-in-vladivostok-april-24-2018/

I am delighted to be in Vladivostok in the Russian Far East. It is my first visit to Vladivostok. I have lived south of here in China, and I’ve lived in Southeast Asia and Taiwan, so I’m familiar with the broader East Asia region and the Pacific region.

My purpose is simple: First, it is to visit our consulate here, which serves the largest consular district in the world – not the largest population, but the largest geographical area. We rely on our Consul General and his staff to do enormously important work here, and we’re very proud of the work that they do, today more important than ever. Second, my desire is to engage in people-to-people relationship building. I’ve spent the day, as I will tomorrow, meeting people from all backgrounds, students, professionals, people who love rock-n-roll, journalists. I really enjoy it, because I find every time I meet with Russian people how much commonality there is between Americans and Russians.

We lose perspective sometimes – we lose sight of that when we read only the politics of the U.S.-Russia relationship, which sometimes is strained as it is today. But we can find solutions to all those issues. There isn’t one issue that is impossible to resolve. We can resolve all of them if there is a will on both sides to work towards that end. In the meantime, I’m interested in how the health of our relationship is from a people-to-people standpoint. We need more of it – we need more people going back and forth. We need more students from America here. We need more young people from here in the United States. We need more people hearing about what the United States is all about. That’s where meeting with you is so important to me, and I’m grateful for the time with you.

I’ve worked with journalists throughout my career, as a governor of a state and as a diplomat. You have a very important function, and I respect the function that you have in getting messages out to the public, which for us is one of the most important things we do. We try to get the message out about the United States: who we are and what we desire in the U.S. – Russia relationship, so that people can understand the truth and through it they will see that the U.S. and Russia do have a lot more in common than those things that divide us. Aa a diplomat, that’s what I’m always focused on – finding common ground and finding commonality between our people and between our countries.

It’s a great pleasure to be here in a city that is so beautiful. It reminds me a lot of the area that is my native ground, where I was born – in San Francisco, in the Bay Area of California, often called the City by the Bay. Many songs have been written about the City by the Bay, and Vladivostok reminds me of the City by the Bay. It’s beautiful. It’s important. It’s the crossroads of many key countries in Northeast Asia and will continue to be the crossroads more so in the future because of trade, because of politics, because Northeast Asia will soon be 20 – 25% of the world’s GDP. This region will be increasingly important, and I’m delighted to learn more about it.

President Ford was a very even-handed president. He wasn’t in for very long, but he followed a tumultuous presidency and he restored order and calm. And part of that was ensuring that the United States had a good relationship with Russia. He came here with that message.

Détente is driven by the desires of the head of state – the President. It started in 1969 and it led to good things, such as arms control agreements, which are very good for the world. And it really ended in the Helsinki Accord of 1975, which yielded very important results that I’m not sure would have been possible without the détente that started in 1969.

I don’t know what the proper diplomatic term for it is, but my president has said repeatedly that he wants a better relationship with Russia. Repeatedly. And he has said quite clearly that he would like to engage personally with President Putin. Every time I’ve met with President Trump or talked with him about this subject, many times now, he’s said the same thing. From day one. You can call it a desire for détente or a desire for a healthier relationship. I think my president is very sincere when he says he wants a stable, predictable, manageable U.S.-Russia relationship. And I think President Putin would like the same thing, because I heard from him when I first met him, when I gave him my credentials, that he expects a better relationship. So, we have both presidents that want to move in that direction. And I think, I’m hoping, and I’ve said this before, and I hope I’m not proven wrong, that despite the events that we’ve experienced, the ups and downs, that we will end 2018 in a better place. And I still believe that to be the case.

President Ford and President Brezhnev met in 1974. The environment was no easier than it is today. But they figured out a way to get it done, and I think our presidents can also figure out a way to get it done. I have confidence.

Thank you for that question. I live in the real world, so you have to deal with what you have. You have to deal with the issues that are before you. Right now, we have a challenging relationship, one that has resulted in almost 800 expulsions from my staff, one in August of last year and once a few weeks ago. Almost 800 people, which represents 70% cut from my staff. If we were a business, we would go bankrupt, because you don’t have enough people to get the work done. But the reality is, we make do and we work with what we have.

The most important investment we can make long term is in people-to-people exchanges. I believe that very deeply. So that’s the long-term goal. The short-term reality is that we’ve been cut by 70%. To put that into perspective, we just opened up a brand-new building in Moscow. It’s state of the art; it’s beautiful. Inside of it, there are about 25 or 26 visa interview booths, which have the best sound systems, the best processing equipment, everything. And we don’t have enough people to staff even half of them right now. This is our problem. But, here’s the good news: if you look at the total number of visas that were issued last year, and if you look at the numbers that have been issued this year, over the first four months, even with the 70% reduction, we’re going to end the year with almost the same level of visas issued. I hear a lot of complaining about visas, and indeed it is a difficult process, but we’re going to do OK this year, despite some of the cuts we’ve been forced to accept.

We must focus on improvements, and this is an area that we will continue to improve. If any of you are in Moscow, I invite you to come to our Embassy. You can also see it here in our Consulate, but if you come to our Embassy, you can see what I’m talking about: the number of people we have working every day to process the visas with a 70% cut. It’s very, very difficult, but we’re doing the best we can.

Not planned for this visit. I have, however, had the opportunity to meet with General Gerasimov, and I’ve had a good opportunity to meet with Minister Shoigu and MOD. We had some very good discussions about our cooperation and counter-terrorism, about our deconfliction channels in Syria, which just two weeks ago worked very well, and on some broader topics. But this visit is less official and more about just meeting Russian citizens, people-to-people.

Obviously, we want to lessen the possibility of conflict in Syria. We want to move more rapidly toward, ultimately, the governance of a unified Syria. That should be the thing we work on most. What should be on our agenda right now is how we move back into the UN-mandated Geneva process for sorting out the leadership in Damascus. This is the most important question going forward. It’s how you reduce tension. It’s how you reduce danger on the battlefield, and how you rid Syria of terrorist elements, which is what Russia and the United States have in common.

I think we have in common, although we have not practiced it very well, the steps that we must take to fulfill the UN Security Council resolution on the future of governance in Syria, which means important constitutional reform. It means returning diaspora populations so that they can participate in the vote. And it means overall reducing violence and the prospects for casualties so that citizens feel safe to go out and actually participate in a political process.

These are all things that are what are most important in Syria right now. It will take the United States and Russia both along with many other to approach that cooperatively in keeping with the UN Security Council Resolution.

You should read nothing more into my visit other than that which was stated initially: to conduct business as United States Ambassador. We’ll let the White House make that announcement in due course. What is significant is that the President of the United States has stated a desire to meet with the head of North Korea, Kim Jong-un. This has never happened in history. We’re already seeing results before this proposed meeting by way of a freeze on North Korea’s missile and weapons programs, which is significant.

I’m not sure that anyone could have predicted this 6 months ago. When President Obama handed over the White House to President Trump, he said that the most pressing and important issue we face today is a nuclear North Korea. Many thought it would result in war. It seems that it is moving in a track that will not in war, but rather will end in North Korea making some wise decisions on freezing their programs and ultimately moving toward denuclearization, which for Northeast Asia and all the countries involved in this very important economic reason, is very good news.

It may surprise you to learn that my counterpart, Ambassador Antonov, in Washington is my friend. We communicate our challenges sometimes. It’s interesting to note that he didn’t have 800 people taken from the Russian mission in the United States. We had far more that were cut from our mission. We’re having to make do. We’ve having to re-prioritize. We’re having to cut things that were absolutely core to our mission, because we cannot do them anymore. I hope that’s temporary, because diplomatic relationships are supposed to engage and grow and yield good things in bilateral relationships. I want to prove we can do that. In order to achieve the things we need to achieve in our relationship, we will need to staff back up again at some point. So, I don’t think where we are right now is the new normal. I think it’s a temporary holding pattern, and I hope in due course that we’re able to rebuild in some of our key functions so that we can engage normally in a diplomatic relationship.

https://www.sltrib.com/news/2018/07/21/ambassador-huntsman/

I respect you as an opinion writer and therefore feel compelled to respond. I’ve been around politics long enough to understand the moment we face and the legitimate arguments on all sides. In fact, I regularly advocate in a hostile environment for the very values that allow us to have this conversation. In our republic, your job is key. It is to outrage, occasionally illuminate, and sometimes inspire with provocative, attention-grabbing headlines. My job is a very different one.

As America’s envoy to Russia, I am appointed by the president but confirmed by the Senate. I am charged with representing our country’s interests, which in the case of Russia are complex and often little understood. Popular punditry is ill-suited to describing the acts of courage, dedication and patriotism I regularly witness as chief of mission overseeing one of America’s most sensitive overseas outposts. Our work has been made more difficult over the past year by the loss of hundreds of colleagues through unprecedented expulsions of diplomats and a staff drawdown imposed by the Russian government.

If you have occasion to visit us in Moscow, I will introduce you to hundreds of colleagues, who are the most highly trained in their field with years of experience working in Russia. Representatives of our foreign service, civil service, military and intelligence services have neither the time nor inclination to obsess over politics, though the issues of the day are felt by all. Their focus is on the work that needs to be done to stabilize the most dangerous relationship in the world, one that encompasses nuclear weapons, fighting terrorism, stopping bloodshed in Ukraine, and seeking a settlement of the seemingly intractable Syrian crisis. Their dedication to service to their country is above politics, and it inspires me to the core. It is my standard.

I have taken an unscientific survey among my colleagues, whom you reference, about whether I should resign. The laughter told me everything I needed to know. It also underscores the fragile nature of this moment. As for my sons, active-duty naval officers whom you also call out, I honor their courageous service each time I salute the Marine guards protecting our large embassy compound. Their words when asked if I should resign are unprintable.

It’s great to be back in Shanghai. I have fond memories of my countless visits here over the years. I stayed down the road at the JinJiang Hotel in 1984, when I was helping to prepare President [Ronald] Reagan’s trip to China. At that time, Deng Xiaoping was in charge, Jiang Zemin was a local politician, the Peace Hotel was a hang-out for local party cadres, and Pudong was nothing more than a collection of rice paddies.
During that visit at the Jinjiang, I wandered down to the original Chinese Communist Party auditorium and imagined what it must have been like to be present when President [Richard] Nixon and Premier Zhou Enlai signed the Shanghai communiqué in February 1972.
From where we stand today, it is easy to forget just how turbulent that time was. The scars of the Korean War remained fresh in our nations’ memories, China lost 400,000 of its men, including the son of Mao Zedong, the Vietnam War was still raging at the time of the Shanghai Communiqué, and China was still embroiled in the Cultural Revolution.
Balance-of-power politics and the threat from the Soviet Union provided the spark for a resumption of contact. Our shared strategic interest in a secure, prosperous, and peaceful world transformed that initial spark into a robust bilateral relationship.
The first months and years of our warming relations were very much guided by a mixture of pragmatism and optimism. Nothing about U.S.-China relations was preordained back then, and the prospect that in just three decades this relationship would become the most high-profile, important bilateral relationship in the world was virtually unimaginable.
But that is where we find ourselves today, thanks in no small measure to the tireless work of visionaries, some right here in this room, such as A. Doak Barnett and Michel Oksenberg. These individuals and others like them in both my country and here in China, who had the audacity to see potential where so many others only saw limitations.
They had the wisdom to see common interests where areas of disagreement were so much more obvious. And they possessed a unique determination to push the relationship forward despite the strong historical and ideological currents running against them.
Their efforts were aided immensely by the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations – a driving force for the development of this relationship. The Committee’s fingerprints can be found at every historic point, from the ping pong diplomacy of 1972 to subsequent exchanges between artists, academics, and sub-national leaders, and for that, we are grateful.
Today, from the vantage point of the heights to which these predecessors have brought us, I would like to share a few observations on the path forward for the United States and China.
We have come a long way since 1972, but more will be required of all of us if we are sincere in our commitment to elevate this bilateral relationship above and beyond our current challenges and help both countries reach their full potential.


Three decades ago, not even the most optimistic idealist could have predicted how fast and how far relations between China and the United States would develop.
The frequency of interaction between our two great nations, whether official, academic, scientific or commercial, has been unprecedented. Habits of cooperation have formed that have brought the best of both of our nations together for the advancement of common interests. To personalize this a bit, I hardly visit a corner of this country without seeing evidence of these common interests in the work that each is doing: I saw the fruits of our shared efforts on HIV/AIDS prevention when I visited a joint U.S.-China treatment facility for HIV negative injecting drug addicts in Xinjiang last year. Inside that clinic I spoke to a recovering heroin addict, one of thousands we are helping to break free of the horrific cycle of addiction and abuse and destructive behavior from which both countries are learning important lessons.
I know from visiting the Yushu earthquake site on the Tibetan Plateau last year that U.S. humanitarian assistance has saved Chinese lives. When we travelled there we walked the streets of what had once been a thriving community, stood next to the ruins of a Buddhist monastery and listened as one man after another told us how his village had been destroyed and his culture threatened by the devastating earthquake. I also saw families eating food provided by American relief workers and children using school supplies donated by the U.S. Embassy.
I have seen U.S. and Chinese experts work together to improve public health and prevent pandemic disease outbreaks. Twenty years ago, more than a million Chinese babies were born with severe neural tube birth defects like spinal bifida. That’s almost 300 babies every day. But more recently, Chinese doctors, working with researchers from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control conducted one the largest studies ever on spinal bifida.
Based on that research, they determined a simple increase in folic acid could save and improve thousands of lives. The results were as stunning as they were indicative of what we can accomplish when we work together: in rural China birth defects fell up to 85 percent, and the lessons learned have become the gold standard for prenatal care around the world.
I have watched U.S. and Chinese scientists jointly conduct advanced research on clean energy technologies — technologies that are fueling innovation and job growth in both countries. Projects that would have been more difficult jus ton their own
And I know that when financial tremors shake world markets, the United States and China come together to stabilize the international financial system. When urgent needs loom or major crises strike, like it or not, the eyes of the world turn to the United States and China.
This is not to say that, alone, the United States and China can solve the world’s problems. But it does mean that unless our two countries are committed to working together and finding solutions for global concerns, it will be much more difficult for all of us to find a way forward.
And so my challenge – our challenge – is to find ways to strengthen habits of cooperation between our countries for the benefit of our citizens and for peoples far beyond our borders.
Although the logic of our shared destiny should compel joint action, it doesn’t always work that way. Too often, divisions dominate our discourse and sap our ability to work together. Of course, it is natural for two great countries to have differences, and our differences on some issues are profound and well-known.
It should come as no surprise, for example, that the United States will continue to champion respect for universal human rights, which is a fundamental extension of the American experience and a bedrock of our world view.
Long after I depart Beijing, future Ambassadors will continue to visit American citizens like Dr. Feng Xue, who was wrongfully convicted of stealing state secrets and is now serving an eight-year sentence in prison far from his family in the United States. They will continue to speak up in defense of social activists, like Liu Xiaobo, Chen Guangcheng and now Ai Weiwei, who challenge the Chinese government to serve the public in all cases and at all times.
The United States will never stop supporting human rights because we believe in the fundamental struggle for human dignity and justice wherever it may occur. We do so not because we oppose China but, on the contrary, because we value our relationship. President Hu and Premier Wen have both acknowledged the universality of human rights. By speaking out candidly, we hope eventually to narrow and bridge this critical gap and move our relationship forward.
At the same time, I know China also has strongly held views on certain issues that differ from ours. And it would be a mistake for us not to listen to their opinions and to try to understand the Chinese perspective. We not only need to listen but we also need to hear each other. Cutting off dialogue and suppressing the news media does not help us understand each other. If specific differences, no matter how sensitive at the moment, are allowed to define the entire relationship, then we all will suffer.
Instead, where we have differences, we owe it to ourselves and to future generations to speak respectfully but also candidly and honestly. And the best way to do this is to maintain a consistent dialogue at all levels throughout the highs and lows in our relationship.
Turning the relationship on and off in reaction to unwelcome events is inconsistent with the objective of a positive, cooperative and comprehensive relationship that our leaders have set out to achieve.
Canceling meetings as a sign of displeasure will not encourage greater respect for each other’s views. Avoiding direct engagement on sensitive issues will only undermine the respective interests of both of our countries. We cannot move forward if, when differences emerge, only one of us is fully committed and fully engaged.
Global challenges will not pause to wait for upturns in our bilateral relationship; just the opposite — they will only worsen while we remain disengaged.
Challenges like financial instability, transnational crime, and potential nuclear proliferation by Iran and North Korea are real, they threaten both of us, and their solution demands our continuous joint efforts.
The true test of our relationship lies in how we rise above our differences to meet these challenges. Effective cooperation on global challenges would improve the lives of Americans, Chinese, and those beyond our borders, and in the process would also help us to transcend some of the bilateral challenges we confront.
Cooperation is not a concession, but rather a sign of confidence: confidence in each other; and confidence in our shared ability to strengthen the global economy, to improve the health of the global environment, and to promote peace around the world.
I believe that as China continues to move in the direction of the political and economic reforms that some Chinese leaders have articulated so eloquently, its sense of confidence will only grow. And as that confidence grows, so too will our ability to work together.
This is my hope, this is my expectation, and it is also, I believe, imperative because, just as cooperation can create a virtuous cycle, an absence of cooperation can produce the opposite effect.

But how do we encourage a positive evolution in our relationship that is durable and sustainable? First and foremost, leadership will be essential, and it will soon fall to our younger generations to provide that leadership. Today’s leaders may struggle with the legacy of outdated ideologies or past differences, but the next generation in both countries will carry with them a profoundly more global outlook.
These future leaders will need to be as farsighted about the bilateral relationship as those that came before them. Just as before, the future direction of U.S.-China relations is not preordained. It is in our hands – and soon will be in the next generation’s hands – to guide, shape, and to lead.
They will need fortitude to avoid the temptation to blame the other country for the challenges they face. They will need confidence to think creatively and act boldly. They will need vision to focus attention on the shared benefits of a cooperative U.S.-China relationship. And they will need determination to develop the relationship even during those inevitable periods of bilateral tension.
I have had the distinct honor as United States Ambassador to China to meet with thousands of Chinese teenagers and university students. I am particularly pleased to see some of China’s youth here today, and I hope they will forgive me for offering some humble and unsolicited advice.
I believe there is a very good chance that some of you, one day, will be helping to lead this country. I am certain, however, that you and your cohort will have a profound impact, not only on the people of China, but on the people of the United States and the rest of world.
As a former businessman, former politician, former diplomat, and perhaps most important– 30-year student of this relationship, I have four simple recommendations for you as you focus on the broader, more bedeviling challenges of U.S.-China relations in the years ahead.
Invest in people-to-people interaction. iPhones, iPads, Twitter and all the other new technologies that are beginning to define the way we communicate are all only tools; and they cannot replace real-world relationships. We cannot rely on even the most advanced communications technology to improve U.S.-China relations. Only people can do this because in the end, it’s good old fashioned heart-to-heart and mind-to-mind contact takes us beyond the headlines and helps deepens trust. Increasing people-to-people exchanges between our countries is the most important long-term investment bar-none.
The more that Americans get to know China and vice versa, the broader the support will be for the continued development of the relationship. For in spite of the immense scale of our relationship, the simple fact remains: individuals – including all of you present today – shape U.S.-China relations. In order for our relationship to have the strength to advance shared goals, it cannot exist solely between governments. It requires the support of every segment of society.
So, use the tools we have available to us, including, especially, the Internet. But use them to share information, increase understanding and build relationships, not to erect barriers or foment distrust.
Respect culture. Our two countries have different histories, customs, and political traditions that inform how we engage each other. We all should appreciate this fact and dedicate more mutual effort to cracking each other’s code, so to speak, by understanding the elements of our two societies that influence and inform our behavior.
If we want to communicate a shared vision for the future, we need first to appreciate how much our different histories, culture, geography and political systems impact how we pursue our goals today.
Humanize the relationship. Your generation will have the technology and the reach literally to bring the bilateral relationship into the home of every American and Chinese family. When you do, I hope you do it in a way that highlights the benefits – and not just the tensions – that each of us derive from productive U.S.-China relationship. Humanizing or bringing down to earth the highly complicated U.S.-China relationship- from the interactions among our leaders to those among our businessmen, scholars, artists and athletes – will make a seemingly vast and complex and distant relationship feel closer and more tangible.
Citizens on both sides of the Pacific will need to better understand now they directly benefit from a strong U.S.-China relationship if it is to succeed beyond your generation because citizens will be increasingly in a position to make their feelings known.
Tackle misperceptions. Misperceptions can be corrosive. Left unchecked, they can take on an aura of reality and even shape our policies toward each other. At base, misperceptions are fed by a lack of mutual trust. As you reach positions of authority, be brutally honest with your American counterparts about China’s concerns and aspirations. Trust is born out of such honesty and, ultimately, trust will be the fuel that takes this bilateral relationship to ever higher heights.
Later this month I will return to the United States, but our work will continue. The bilateral relationship will keep evolving. Challenges and opportunities will continue to emerge. Others will watch our every move as well they should.
As I prepare to step down as U.S. Ambassador to China, I leave this country more certain than ever before that there is no relationship anywhere in the world, that is so full of potential as this one- potential to do good if we focus our energies, potential to do harm if we let this opportunity pass us by.
With the world in such desperate need for leadership, we should all set our sights ever higher.
Working together, the U.S. and China should help relieve human suffering relief in regions of the world unreachable by others. We should strive to find cures for diseases like cancer and AIDS. We should lead the world in innovating clean energy technology that can create jobs while improving quality of life.
Together, we should be lifting the world.
There is so much to do but so few who can do it. Those of us who are able, need to stand up and make a difference. I have every confidence that the U.S. China relationship is poised to lead the challenges and opportunities. It is all made possible by first understanding each other even better than we do today. This is something we all should embrace. Thank you very much for having me.

https://ustr.gov/archive/assets/Document_Library/USTR_Deputy_Speeches/2003/asset_upload_file416_6697.pdf

And it is indeed an honor to be
invited to deliver the keynote address at this important event inaugurating the
Manhattan India Investment Roundtable. I applaud this joint initiative by the U.S. - India
Business Council and the U.S. Council for International Business, and I wish the
participants success in their deliberations. I believe that the Roundtable can contribute
to America’s efforts to encourage India’s leadership in the international economy.
Several people have played roles in fostering stronger commercial relations between
the United States and India, but I would like to single out Dean R. O’Hare, chair and
former chair of both organizations sponsoring the Roundtable, for special thanks. Dean
has tirelessly advocated greater recognition of India’s opportunities and challenges. Let
me also take this opportunity to recognize several of our colleagues whose abiding
support for both the business community and strengthening U.S. -India relations are
well known:
Our hosts this evening: Ambassador Tom Niles of the US-CIB; Mr. Rajat Gupta of the
USIBC; and Ambassador Nick Platt of the Asia Society. Gary Benanav, Mr. A.K.
Purwar, and Consul General Pramethesh Rath, Ned Cloonan, Brant Free, Sue
Esserman, and George Ugeux.
As we talk about those things that unite us as countries, today, there is no better
example to reflect on than that of Indian-American Astronaut Kalpana Chawla whose life
was so tragically taken this last week while exploring the horizons of science. She was
a role model for many both in India and here. Dr. Chawla’s life was fueled by dreams
and determination, which took her from the small Punjabi town of Karnal to the soaring
heights of NASA’s space program where she became the first person of Indian descent
to fly in an American space shuttle.
I want to begin my talk with an observation that is neither novel nor particularly insightful
but is important in understanding our economic relationship with India. It is simply this:
India has been slow to accept globalization. Few, particularly in India, would deny this.
Keith Bradsher, in his December front-page article in the New York Times titled “India
Slips Far Behind China, Once Its Close Economic Rival”, may be overstating matters
when he writes that “India’s continued backwardness compared with its neighbor across
the Himalayas has become a national obsession.” Yet, whether perception or reality, I 
also think he is on to something. Despite developing internationally competitive
software and business services industries, and despite notable high profile
achievements in a few other sectors, many Indians sense that their country may not be
keeping up with the competition.
As India’s business and government leaders witness the economic advance of many of
its neighbors, some now accept that India needs to make policy changes and, at long
last, embrace globalization. They recognize that their country has limited choices:
pursue deeper reform, or miss important economic opportunities that will bring
additional growth and development.
India has never been indifferent to trade. A visitor to New Delhi fifteen years ago would
have seen thousands of signs excoriating Arthur Dunkel. Most Americans at the time
would have been unable to identify this “evil doer” nor the organization he led, but
clearly Arthur Dunkel was infamous in New Delhi.
To many it was ironic to see the benign, chain smoking, Swiss bureaucrat who headed
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the precursor to the World Trade
Organization (WTO), cast in the role of villain. India’s political leaders had done little to
discourage the popular myth that Dunkel and the GATT were a threat to India’s very
survival.
Yet as in many other areas, India is clearly changing. A recent statement by India’s
acting Commerce Minister, Arun Shourie, expressed the kind of leadership that is
helping Indians overcome old fears about India’s vulnerability in the era of globalization.
At the annual general meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and
Industry (FICCI), Minister Shourie reportedly asserted that India runs the risk of being
isolated if the country maintains an attitude of negativism and suspicion about the
benefits of effective engagement at the WTO.
Minister Shourie further remarked that “India has no alternative but to engage the world.
We can disengage and become like Mynamar, raise duties, but that is not the solution.”
He continued by stating that India should cease looking at the WTO as some sort of a
“hua,” or frightening specter.
These sentiments, I believe, are indicative of a growing acceptance by India’s leaders of
the vital importance of full engagement in the world economy. And they are consistent
with India’s full engagement with the U.S. and with the world on the leading security
issues of our day. The United States and India share a powerful common interest in the
health of the global economy and of India’s successful integration into it. We welcome
the appointment of Arun Jaitley as Minister of Commerce. We expect Ambassador
Zoellick and Minister Jaitley to meet for the first time next week in Tokyo to begin what I
hope will be a fruitful and enduring dialogue on U.S. - India economic and trade
relations.
I know that understanding the depth of America’s commitment to expanding world trade
and strengthening the role of the WTO are important concerns of Indian leaders, and so
I want to say a few words about our perspective.
International trade relations for the Bush administration have been a high priority. As
President Bush has tellingly observed, “The growth of the world economy depends on
world trade. The growth of world trade depends on American leadership.”
The last two years have been important from a trade standpoint for the U.S. where we
have built on the good work accomplished by previous administrations. We won a hard
fought battle for Trade Promotion Authority (the first time a U.S. President obtained this
authority in eight years), completed two major Free Trade Agreements (Singapore and
Chile), started several more, and launched a major new round of global trade talks at
Doha. We are doing our best to provide the leadership that President Bush has spoken
about.
But our efforts will be incomplete without the strength of a solid partnership with India.
From the beginning of his Administration, President Bush has sought a major
transformation in our bilateral relations with India. In many areas his ambitions are
being realized, and our overtures have been welcomed. Concrete results are being
achieved, particularly in the fight against terrorism. Political, diplomatic, military, and
intelligence ties all have been strengthened.
Today, the United States wants to treat India realistically for what it is -- a major country
and an emerging power. We want to engage India in a strategic dialogue that
encompasses the full range of global issues. The United States appreciates that India’s
influence clearly extends far beyond South Asia. We welcome a broader role for India
and we want to work closely with India to develop imaginative responses in such areas
as counter-terrorism, nuclear nonproliferation, human rights and environmental
protection.
Yet despite gains in other key areas, progress in transforming our economic relationship
with India has been slow. And for those of us who believe in a successful bilateral
economic relationship, too slow. Ambassador Blackwill called languishing bilateral
commercial ties “flat as a chapatti.” The Ambassador also noted in a recent speech that
our commerce is far below its potential and observed that our two-way trade with India,
a country of over a billion people, is less than our trade with Ireland - an island of only
four million. Clearly, our two countries can do better.
There are several other important reasons for the lack of bilateral economic progress
with India. I’d like to mention a couple. Most fundamentally, trade negotiations are
about access for goods, agriculture, services, and investors. And while India, as I noted
earlier, has begun the slow shift towards creating a hospitable environment for foreign
investment and imports, many in India – in government, the bureaucracy, industry and
civil society – continue to reagrd openness with deepen suspicion, if not antipathy.
Yet at the same time, there has been a global movement towards freer markets. The
extent of change has sometimes been exaggerated, but a historic shift has undeniably
been achieved. India is already benefiting from globalization to a degree that may not
be fully be appreciated.
To illustrate, let me talk briefly about one area of considerable importance – IT and
business process services. Today, U.S. companies of all sizes and types, from the very
largest financial center banks to Silicon Valley start-ups, and all kinds of companies in
between, are finding great economic advantage through technology-enabled
partnerships with Indian firms. To a degree that is already impressive, and expanding
rapidly, India is becoming the host too much of the financial and business data of the
American economy. GE already reports that more than 80 percent of its companies
world wide run back-end operations through India. Today American citizens find that
their personal medical records, financials history, business transactions, technical
support, loan applications and much more are all being provided by Indians. This is an
important change that, according to one credible estimate, may create many as 2.8
million new jobs in India. That’s globalization at work.
But while this historic shift goes on, with the race for foreign investment more intense
than ever, only modest amounts of investments are flowing into India. In large part, this
is because of deliberate choices that India has made in the past, and has begun to
change very slowly. India’s tariffs are today, more than ten years after the beginning of
economic reform, the highest in the world, except for those of Pakistan, according to the
World Bank.
America has always been a trading nation – as has India. Our colonial forefathers sold
fur, cotton, tobacco, and grains to Europe and imported tea, spices, and manufactured
goods from around the world. Indeed, one of the seminal events in American history -
the Boston Tea Party - was a rebellion against punitive import taxes! The inheritors of
that Boston legacy were the famous “Yankee traders”, well known around the world for
their fierce competitive spirit. Some say that spirit lives on in the form of American
Entrepreneurship.
To be sure, the United States can be faulted for occasional spasms of protectionism.
But even these exceptions have not been severe enough to close segments of the
American market. Over half of our domestic apparel spending, for example, is on
imports, despite complaints of a closed U.S. textile market.
The fact is Americans like to purchase imports - or, rather, are willing to reward quality
and low prices from whatever source. In many countries, by contrast, imports are
looked upon with disdain, even when formal market barriers are low. Consumers who
purchase imported products are even denounced as unpatriotic.
India likes to export, but has a grudging attitude at best towards imports. Indians
understand the almost universally accepted truth that a vibrant export sector is 
necessary for poverty alleviation and sustainable development. Yet they remain
skeptical of imports - even of products such as life-saving medical equipment not
manufactured in India. So the country maintains tariffs among the highest in the world,
imposes additional taxes when tariffs come down, and erects non-tariff barriers. These
multiple, onion-like barriers discourage potential exporters.
The U.S. has a huge and growing trade imbalance with India. In 2002 we had a $6.8
billion deficit, an increase of 30% over 2001. Moreover, we have been India’s fastest
growing market, with the exception of China, and our imports from India have more than
doubled since 1995.
The United States has advocated market-opening measures that would reduce this
imbalance.
For example, India’s tariff and taxation structure undermines its tariff commitments in
the WTO. This structure has impeded trade in such items as medical equipment,
chemicals, soybean oil, and distilled spirits. Differential treatment of imports and
domestic production of phosphates, for instance, has caused a $400 million U.S. market
to evaporate while India’s agricultural sector suffers from lack of quality fertilizer.
Special taxes have increased the price of imports so that they no longer are competitive
in the Indian market. The recent change in customs valuation methodology for imported
films threatens to suffocate substantial opportunities in bilateral trade and creative
collaboration.
India’s high agricultural support prices have encouraged the overproduction of wheat
and rice, contributing to volatility in world grain markets. We also believe that India’s
domestic support scheme for wheat and rice lead to export practices that undermine
India’s WTO export subsidy commitments.
At the same time, it is important to take note of important new developments in Indian
policy. India may be on the verge of making significant unilateral tariff reductions that
would lead to a single digit tariff structure by 2007. We applaud any effort to truly
reduce the tariff burden. At the same time, we believe that the WTO’s Doha
Development Agenda offers the best opportunity to make sure that measures taken to
liberalize the Indian market also help India to gain secure and new market access
opportunities abroad.
A successful WTO round would be a “win-win” for India. By helping to knock down
domestic barriers to trade, the round would provide India’s consumers with more
choices and lower prices. While boosting the country’s long-term competitiveness
around the world, a new trade round would promote jobs and create valuable new
export opportunities for Indian companies.
For the United States, our objective for the current WTO round gets right to the heart
and soul of trade...basic market access... market access for agriculture, goods and 
services. In getting us there, the United States has made a dramatic proposal on
agriculture. Supporting this, India has called for significant reforms in export subsidies
and trade-distorting domestic support. However, while it has joined us in advocating
substantial tariff reductions by developed countries, it rejects the need for developing
countries also to improve market access conditions. Making progress in this area,
which is important to many developing countries, will be critical to the success of the
Doha negotiations.
The U.S. also has tabled an equally bold proposal on market access for industrial
products.
We have proposed a rapid reduction of high tariffs so that by 2010 no tariffs would be
above 8 per cent. We also have called for the progressive elimination of duties by
2015. All tariffs below 5 per cent would be abolished by 2010. Finally, we have
proposed a parallel initiative calling for speedier elimination of tariffs in many industrial
sectors.
We may not be as far apart as some observers may think. For example, India has
proposed that by 2010 all peak tariffs be reduced to three times a country’s average
duty. In the case of the United Sates, our average duty is 2.6 percent; three times that
amount would be 7.8 percent – which is very close to the 8 percent we have proposed.

At present we may have a better near-term opportunity to work closely with India in the
WTO for mutual gain in the services trade area. India, like the United States, has an
enormous stake in global liberalization of services trade and should make its voice
heard as an active proponent of services liberalization.
In addition to working together in the WTO the United States and India should explore
ways to liberalize services trade between us. U.S. services providers would certainly
welcome a more open and secure legal framework for the services they seek to provide
India. We could see whether the Indian services providers have similar concerns about
the U.S. market. Expanding our bilateral services trade would be a good area to have
the staffs from USTR and the Indian Commerce Ministry explore in upcoming
consultations.
Service industries account for a large and growing share of total economic output in
India. In fact, service sector GDP is the fastest- growing component of total GDP in
India. During 1995-2001, Indian services exports increased at an average annual rate
of 20 percent, much faster than the average annual growth rate of total world services
exports (3.4 percent).
Trade in services has created a substantial number of jobs in India. For example,
General Electric employs more than 15,000 people in India who provide services such
as accounting and customer service to its offices throughout the world. Approximately 
3,300 software engineers are employed by Hewlett-Packard Co. in India. In addition, as
I have already noted, developed-country firms are increasingly outsourcing back-office
and technology services from Indian firms, creating high-paying jobs in engineering,
medical services, research and development, and other services fields.
The tremendous success of India’s high-technology sector offers a potent argument for
India’s interest in an open trading system. India exported over $6 billion worth of
software last year -- accounting for 13 percent of the country’s total exports. Over the
past five years, the annual growth rate for India’s software exports has been 45 percent.
And there’s every reason to believe it will keep growing. The Software Engineering
Institute at Carnegie Mellon University gives its “top quality” ranking to only 48 software
companies in the world; nearly two-thirds of them are based in India.
The WTO services negotiations now under way in Geneva offer our two governments a
unique opportunity to team up and obtain better access in third markets. We want to
work with India’s leaders to develop specific, targeted initiatives that help our services
exporters and show leadership by our two countries so that the WTO remains relevant
as trade in services evolves, including all ways of delivering services.
Improving market access for motion picture exports is of joint interest to both India and
the United States, the world’s two largest producers of motion pictures. The technology
of the motion picture industry is such that nearly all the cost of making a film goes into
the production of the first print. It is thus in the producer’s interest to seek the widest
possible market – both domestic and foreign – in order to maximize the return on this
investment.
We also support India’s ambitions to expand software and other IT services exports.
We too have an interest in further developing export markets for these services and
have proposed that we develop a specific, targeted initiative to help both our software
and computer services exporters to gain access to third markets. This would
demonstrate that India and the U.S. are playing a joint leadership role in the WTO in an
area in which we have complementary commercial interests.

Now just a few comments on investment. Like our trade relationship, the investment
relationship between the United States and India falls well short of its potential, to our
mutual disadvantage.
When I speak of the potential of our investment relationship I am thinking of attributes of
our two countries that should, in principle, provide a foundation for substantial bilateral
capital flows. We have a common language. Our educational systems are comparable
both in their approach and their quality, and we both produce large numbers of highquality,
technologically advanced graduates. We both have vibrant information
technology sectors. And we both have continent- sized economies that are generously
endowed with natural resources. 
In recent years, as India has liberalized its investment policies, these natural affinities
between our economies have begun to yield new investment opportunities. Taking
advantage of our common language, U.S. firms are turning to Indian firms for help with
software development, back-office data-processing functions, and other business
applications. Indian and Indian-American entrepreneurs are launching and taking equity
stakes in a number of U.S. high-tech ventures.
Yet bilateral investment flows between India and the United States remain small –
relative both to the size of our economies and to the flow of investment between the
United States and other countries in Asia.
India’s relatively small stock of foreign direct investment is at least partly a legacy of an
investment regime that Indian officials now acknowledge was too hostile to foreign
capital. Many of the policies that discouraged investment in the past have been
eliminated or modified in recent years.
But if India is to attract more U.S. investments, it will find that more must be done to
liberalize its investment policies. I am confident that India’s leadership is looking hard at
the investment regime. Yet India’s stance on investment-related issues in the WTO
suggests that the country’s leadership is not yet ready to take the steps and make the
commitments that will make it an even more attractive destination for foreign capital.
India leads a group of developing countries that is advocating major revisions of the
1994 Agreement on Trade Related Investment Measures, or TRIMs Agreement, which
prohibits the imposition of local-content and other performance requirements on foreign
investors. The Indian proposals would permit the reimposition of performance
requirements by developing countries, despite the fact that there is convincing evidence
from the years prior to the TRIMs Agreement that performance requirements discourage
foreign investment. The United States also opposes reopening a WTO agreement that
has not only had less than a decade to operate, but was part of a carefully crafted
bargain that concluded the Uruguay Round of global trade negotiations.
As many of you know, WTO members are also discussing the possibility of launching
multilateral negotiations on investment at the next Ministerial, which will be held in
Cancun later this year. The principal proponents of a WTO investment agreement are
the EU and Japan, but the United States supports at least achieving meaningful
commitments on transparency and non-discrimination. We believe multilateral
investment and transparency disciplines will generate a substantial increase in global
investment flows. And developing countries will benefit most from the increased
circulation of private capital.
But in these discussions, too, India is leading the opposition. The Indians have thus far
refused to pledge support for the launch of WTO investment negotiations in Cancun,
and they have opposed even the most modest proposals for the scope of such
negotiations.
In our view, a country like India – with a large and dynamic economy and a capable
government – should be confidently embracing foreign investment and working to
persuade other developing countries to liberalize their investment regimes and endorse
multilateral investment disciplines.
In its bilateral investment treaties, India has made a number of non-discrimination and
other commitments to investors from certain countries. It should not be too difficult for
India to support the multiliteralization of commitments like these. And, finally, India and
the United States even might explore in the future the possibility of negotiating a
bilateral investment treaty.

There is a new spirit in U.S.-India relations, and I am hopeful that that spirit will be
reflected in our bilateral trading relationship and in our respective approached to the
WTO. We have a special role to play in leading global negotiations. The United States
and India should leverage their dynamism to open minds and to open markets. Our
policies must promote these global trends. We must take practical steps to move the
world toward greater freedom and promotion of human rights by linking ourselves to the
agents of global change: the new networks for free trade, information, investment and
ideas.
The U.S. is excited about the possibility of forging a common trade agenda that benefits
both our nations and the rest of the world – developing and developed alike. Expanded
trade and commerce is not a zero-sum mercantilist calculation, but instead a “win-win”
opportunity for our peoples, our countries and the global economy.
We will have occasional disputes, but the root of our relationship should be strong and
healthy ... based upon the shared values that honor an individual’s right to economic,
political and human freedom. And if together we tend to it properly, that root will spawn
a century of prosperity and freedom unequaled in human history.