https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/public_statements/1416593/chairman_joe_simons_privacy_shield_review_remarks-2018.pdf

The free flow of data – across the Atlantic and around the world – unlocks
many of the economic benefits from innovations like the Internet of Things, big
data, and artificial intelligence. The success of the Privacy Shield Framework
preserves these data flows and provides important privacy protections.
This morning, I would like to speak briefly about what you can expect from
the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC” or “Commission”) when it comes to
Privacy Shield. The FTC, as you know, is an independent U.S. enforcement
agency that plays a leading role in protecting consumer privacy. While the FTC
has new Commissioners, our commitment to support the Privacy Shield
Framework is unwavering, and we will continue to aggressively enforce and
uphold it. We will continue to take action against companies that fail to honor a

substantive commitment to the Privacy Shield principles, as well as those that
make false claims of participation in the framework.
The Commission brought three actions in 2017, another earlier this year,
and four more last month. Together with our 39 actions under the predecessor
U.S-EU Safe Harbor Framework, and our four actions related to the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperative’s Cross-Border Privacy Rules system, the FTC has
brought 51 actions to protect the privacy of cross-border data transfers.
Our actions support the substantial efforts of the U.S. Department of
Commerce to implement and administer the Privacy Shield Framework. In the
past, we have brought enforcement actions against companies that, despite
claiming to comply, never signed up with the framework or had let their
registrations lapse. Over the last year, our actions addressed companies that began
the process of signing up for the framework, and held themselves out as
participants, but never actually finished the Department of Commerce’s careful
verification process.
Two of our most recent actions include new counts, for violating the
requirement that companies leaving the framework affirm to the Department of
Commerce that they will continue to apply the Privacy Shield principles to
personal information received during the time they participated in the program.
Along with our enforcement, the Commission has also issued business
guidance about this aspect of Privacy Shield.

 In fact, the FTC arranged for the
Department of Commerce to share that guidance with the more than 3,700 Privacy
Shield participants. The guidance reminds participants leaving Privacy Shield that
they must continue to protect the data transferred under the Privacy Shield,
consistent with its principles.
The FTC will also continue to investigate in this area. The Commission
recently issued administrative subpoenas to obtain materials from certain Privacy
Shield participants as part of our agency’s ongoing efforts to proactively monitor
compliance.
Privacy Shield is part of our larger privacy enforcement program, which
remains a top priority under my leadership. The FTC has a longstanding
enforcement record, with hundreds of privacy and data security cases. Year after
year, privacy and data security top the list of consumer protection priorities at the
Federal Trade Commission. These concerns are critical to consumers and
businesses alike. Press reports about privacy concerns and data breaches are 
increasingly common—such as the reports about Facebook and Equifax, to name
two high-profile examples. While our investigations are non-public, I can confirm
that both of these companies are currently the subject of FTC investigations. And
we take these cases – as with all others – very seriously.
You also can expect further FTC privacy enforcement. Just this week, for
example, the Commission announced a complaint and $3 million settlement
against a company called RealPage for violating the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
We alleged that the company failed to take reasonable steps to ensure the accuracy
of tenant screening information provided to landlords and property managers,
causing potential renters to be falsely associated with criminal records.
In support of our vigorous enforcement agenda, the Federal Trade
Commission has for many years engaged in substantial efforts to stay informed of
market developments, shape our policy agenda, and identify opportunities to
develop the law, consistent with our enforcement authority.
As part of that process, the FTC recently kicked off a series of public
hearings – both in Washington, D.C. and in other cities around the country – to
consider whether broad-based changes in the economy, business practices,
technologies, and international developments warrant adjustments to our
competition and consumer protection laws, enforcement priorities, and policies.
The hearings will include multiple sessions on data security, high tech
platforms, big data, artificial intelligence, and other cutting-edge topics that
challenge all of us to reexamine our regulatory approaches.
We invite our colleagues in Europe to comment on and participate in these
hearings. We want to learn from experiences across the globe.
In conclusion, I am here today to help ensure that the Privacy Shield
Framework remains a robust mechanism for protecting privacy and enabling
transatlantic data flows. We continue our strong commitment to the framework.
Three of our FTC staff, including the head of our privacy enforcement division, are
here today and will further discuss the FTC’s work on this critical program. 

https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/public_statements/1413916/p180101_commission_testimony_re_antitrust_law_enforcement_10032018.pdf

For over 100 years, the FTC has worked to ensure that American markets are open,
vibrant, and unencumbered by unreasonable private or public restraints. With its dual missions to
promote competition and protect consumers, the FTC applies antitrust and consumer protection
law in a dynamic economy that is rapidly responding to new technology. The FTC is committed
to understanding how technological developments and globalization can and should impact our law
enforcement, research, and advocacy. As commerce and technology continue to evolve, companies
may find newer ways to engage in consumer fraud schemes, deceptive advertising, and unfair
practices that cause substantial consumer harm, with little or no benefit to consumers or competition;
as well as mergers and conduct that harm, or threaten to harm, competition. Our agency tackles these
challenges primarily through targeted law enforcement, although we also take full advantage of our
unique set of policy tools. Our structure, research capacity, and committed staff enable the FTC to
continue to meet its mandate of protecting consumers and competition in an ever-changing
marketplace.

This testimony highlights a number of recent FTC competition enforcement matters,
including notable victories stopping anticompetitive mergers and conduct; public hearings that
we are hosting on a variety of competition and consumer protection issues; and advocacy both
domestically and abroad.

The Commission seeks to promote competition through a rigorous, fact-intensive
approach to law enforcement. The FTC has jurisdiction over a wide swath of the economy and
focuses its enforcement efforts on sectors that most directly affect consumers and their wallets,
such as health care, consumer products and services, technology, manufacturing, and energy.
The agency shares primary jurisdiction with the Department of Justice in enforcing the nation’s
antitrust laws.

One of the agency’s principal responsibilities is to prevent mergers that may substantially
lessen competition. Since fiscal year 2013, premerger filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino
(“HSR”) Act have increased more than 50 percent, bringing filings in the past fiscal year to the
average over the past 20 years.
3 In the most recent fiscal year, the antitrust agencies received 

more than 2,000 HSR filings. The FTC work to challenge anticompetitive mergers has placed a
considerable strain on the Commission’s resources that were already limited. Although most
reported transactions do not raise competitive concerns and are cleared expeditiously by the
agencies, when available evidence gives the Commission reason to believe that a proposed
merger likely would be anticompetitive, the Commission does not hesitate to intervene. Since the
beginning of FY 2016, the Commission has challenged 55 mergers. Although many of these
cases were resolved through divestiture settlements, in the last year alone, the Commission sued
to block five mergers, and each of these matters required a significant commitment of resources
to prepare for litigation. Two of those challenges ended successfully when the parties abandoned
the transactions after the Commission initiated litigation.
For instance, after the FTC voted to
sue the parties, Smuckers and ConAgra abandoned their proposed merger that likely would have
substantially reduced competition for the sale of branded canola and vegetable oils. In July, the
district court in Washington, D.C. issued a preliminary injunction blocking Wilhelmsen Maritime
Services’ proposed acquisition of Drew Marine Group, a merger that would have combined the
world’s two largest suppliers of water treatment chemicals used by tankers, container ships, and 

cruise ships.
The parties subsequently abandoned both transactions. Three other merger cases
are still pending in litigation.

As noted above, the Commission continues to resolve most horizontal merger challenges
through negotiated settlements requiring divestitures that sufficiently replace lost competition. In
the past year, for example, the FTC reviewed a number of horizontal mergers involving retail gas
stations and convenience stores, and required divestitures to maintain competition in more than
150 local gasoline markets. The Commission also took action to prevent harm from horizontal
mergers involving a wide variety of products (such as cement, agricultural chemicals,
medical instruments,
and pharmaceuticals) and services (such as specialty veterinary
services and air ambulance services).

The FTC also reviews vertical mergers and, when appropriate, acts to prevent harm to
competition. For example, the Commission reviewed the merger of Northrop Grumman, a
leading provider of missile systems to the Department of Defense (DOD), and Orbital ATK, a
key supplier of solid rocket motors (SRM). Our competitive concern was that the acquisition
would provide Northrop with the incentive and ability to harm competition for missile contracts
by either withholding access to Orbital’s solid rocket motors or increasing SRM prices to
competitors. As a result, competitors would be forced to raise the prices of their missile systems,
invest less aggressively to win missile programs, or decide not to compete at all, which, in turn,
would decrease competitive pressure on Northrop. The acquisition also created a risk that the
proprietary, competitively sensitive information of a rival SRM supplier supporting Northrop’s
missile system business could be shared with Northrop’s vertically integrated SRM business.
The FTC worked closely with the DOD in our review, and our proposed order imposes nondiscrimination
requirements and a firewall to preserve competition.
One increasing challenge for the Commission in litigating competition cases is the need
to hire testifying economic experts. Qualified experts are a critical resource in all of the FTC’s
competition cases heading toward litigation. Although the agency thus far has managed to
allocate sufficient resources to fund the experts needed to support its cases and continues to
develop strategies for managing expert costs more effectively, the FTC is reaching the point
where it will be unable to meet these needs without compromising its ability to fulfill other
aspects of the agency’s mission. The Commission appreciates Congress’s attention to its 

resource needs, including the need to continue to hire outside experts to support effective
antitrust enforcement.
Finally, the Commission is committed to efficient and transparent merger review. In
response to concerns that merger investigations are taking longer than they used to, the Bureau
has developed a more robust system of tracking key milestones in the merger review process to
determine whether this perception has merit and, if so, why some reviews may be taking longer.
Armed with better information, the Bureau will assess what might be done to make the merger
review process more efficient and less burdensome, while still ensuring the right outcome for
consumers. The Bureau also has released a Model Timing Agreement, which adds greater
transparency and certainty to the merger review process.

The Commission maintains a robust program to identify and stop anticompetitive
conduct, especially in critical health care markets. For over twenty years and on a bipartisan
basis, the Commission has prioritized ending anticompetitive reverse payment agreements in
which a brand-name drug firm pays its potential generic rival to give up its patent challenge and
agree not to launch a lower cost generic product. Following the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2013
decision in FTC v. Actavis, Inc.,
the Commission is in a much stronger position to challenge
agreements of this type; recently, the district court on remand denied the defendants’ motion for
summary judgment in that case, clearing it for trial. In addition, since Actavis, the FTC obtained

a landmark $1.2 billion settlement from the maker of sleep disorder drug Provigil, and other
manufacturers have agreed to abandon anticompetitive agreements of this type.
 Currently, the
FTC has three additional matters pending in litigation challenging reverse payment agreements.

The Commission also has challenged anticompetitive unilateral conduct by drug
manufacturers to maintain a monopoly, such as abuse of government process through sham
litigation or repetitive regulatory filings intended to slow the approval of competitive drugs.
Here too, the Commission recently had a major victory when a federal court ruled on the basis of
a full trial record that AbbVie Inc. used sham litigation to illegally maintain its monopoly over
the testosterone replacement drug Androgel, and ordered $493.7 million in monetary relief to
those who were overcharged for Androgel as a result of AbbVie’s conduct. This case represents
the first time any court has found that sham litigation violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act since 

the U.S. Supreme Court first recognized this legal theory in Professional Real Estate Investors,
Inc. v. Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc., and it is a significant win for consumers.

Nevertheless, the FTC’s antitrust enforcement program has faced some setbacks. In 2017,
the FTC filed a complaint in federal district court charging Shire ViroPharma Inc. with violating
the antitrust laws by abusing government processes through a campaign of serial, repetitive, and
unsupported filings with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and courts to delay the
FDA’s approval of generic Vancocin capsules.
 Vancocin capsules are used to treat C.difficileassociated
diarrhea, or CDAD, a sometimes life-threatening bacterial infection. The FTC alleged
that Vancocin capsules are not reasonably interchangeable with any other medications used to
treat CDAD, and that because of ViroPharma’s actions, consumers and other purchasers paid
hundreds of millions of dollars more for their medication.
In March of this year, the district court in Delaware ruled that ViroPharma’s repetitive
and baseless petitions to the FDA amounted to sham petitioning that was not protected activity
under the Noerr-Pennington doctrine; unfortunately, however, the court nonetheless dismissed
the FTC’s monopolization complaint, ruling that the agency failed to adequately plead an
imminent violation of antitrust law that would merit a permanent injunction under Section 13(b)
of the FTC Act. The FTC has appealed this ruling to the Third Circuit, noting that no court in the

45 years since the enactment of Section 13(b) has required the FTC to meet this more stringent
standard for imminence of harm.

The Commission is also attentive to situations where health care firms engage in conduct
that restrains competition for employees, such as anticompetitive information exchanges and
other collusive practices by employers in labor markets. For example, in July, the FTC charged
three parties—a Texas company that provides therapists to home health agencies, the company’s
owner, and the former owner of a competing staffing company—with violating the antitrust laws.
The Commission alleged that the parties violated the FTC Act by agreeing to reduce rates paid to
therapists and by inviting other competitors to join their collusive scheme. Fortunately, the FTC
and Texas Attorney General were successful in stopping this conduct quickly. Just as American
consumers deserve robust competition among producers who set prices for the goods they buy,
American workers deserve robust competition among potential employers who determine their
wages. This case highlights an important message of the October 2016 joint DOJ/FTC guidance
for human resources professionals: competition is essential to well-functioning markets,
including job markets.

From smart appliances and smart cars to mobile devices and search platforms, the
widespread use of technology and data is changing not only the way we live, but also the way
firms operate. Although many of these changes offer consumer benefits, they also raise complex 

and sometimes novel competition issues. Given the important role that technology companies
play in the American economy, it is critical that the Commission—in furthering its mission to
protect consumers and promote competition—not only understand current and developing
business models, but also scrutinize incumbents’ conduct to ensure that they abide by the same
rules of competitive markets that apply to any company. When appropriate, the Commission will
take action to counter the harmful effects of proposed transactions and coordinated or unilateral
conduct by technology firms.

Although vigorous law enforcement is the primary tool the Commission uses to promote
competition and protect consumers, we take advantage of a variety of research and advocacy
tools to stay current with emerging trends in our dynamic economy, study business
developments, and advocate for policies that eliminate unreasonable restrictions on competition.
In June, Chairman Simons announced a new series of public hearings—Hearings on
Competition and Consumer Protection in the 21st Century—to consider whether broad-based
changes in the economy, evolving business practices, new technologies, and international
developments warrant adjustments to competition and consumer protection law, enforcement
priorities, and policy. This initiative is modeled on a similar effort in 1995 by former FTC
Chairman Bob Pitofsky, which was the first step in establishing the FTC as a key modern center
for competition “R&D,” and led to a well-received two-volume staff report, Anticipating the 21st

Century, which presented analyses and recommendations on competition and consumer
protection policy, respectively.
 Similarly, through the series of hearings that began on
September 13, the Commission is devoting significant resources to refresh and, if warranted,
renew its thinking on a wide range of cutting-edge competition and consumer protection issues.
The hearings kicked off last month at Georgetown University Law Center, with opening sessions
on market competitiveness, enforcement policy, and the regulation of consumer data. The
Commission approaches this effort with an open mind, and we are open to using what we learn
from the hearings to more effectively carry out our mission to protect consumers and
competition.
The Commission will also continue to look for opportunities to issue joint guidance with
our antitrust partners at the Department of Justice. Last year, the agencies issued updated
Antitrust Guidelines for the Licensing of Intellectual Property, which explain how the federal
antitrust agencies evaluate licensing and related activities involving patents, copyrights, trade
secrets, and know-how. This update modernizes the agencies’ 1995 IP Licensing Guidelines,
ensuring that they continue to provide useful guidance to the public and the business community
about the agencies’ enforcement approach to intellectual property licensing.
The FTC also engages in competition advocacy, providing comments to state legislatures,
state and federal agencies, and other policymakers. Competition advocacy is particularly
effective in addressing market restraints imposed by governments themselves, such as excessive
state occupational licensing requirements, where the likely effects on competition and other 

social objectives like employment may not be adequately understood by policy makers.
 For
example, the FTC’s Economic Liberty Task Force recently released a policy paper entitled
Policy Perspectives: Options to Enhance Occupational License Portability. This paper assesses
various approaches that state licensure boards, professional organizations, state legislatures, and
others may consider in developing effective licensure portability initiatives. American workers,
employers, consumers, and our economy as a whole will benefit from eliminating unnecessary
and overbroad licensing requirements that impose costs, limit competition, and are not needed to
protect consumer health and safety.
The FTC also relies on its expertise in health care competition to identify policies that
impose unnecessary burdens on competition to the detriment of consumers. For instance, the
FTC recently responded to the Department of Health and Human Services’ request for comment
on its Blueprint to Lower Drug Prices and Reduce Out-of-Pocket Costs, focusing on two topics:
misuse of Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) programs and biologic
competition. The FTC supports well-crafted regulatory and legislative actions to correct the
misuse of REMS programs. Today, brands can misuse REMS restrictions to prevent or delay
generic firms from obtaining FDA approval for lower cost drugs, and may place voluntary limits
on drug distribution that deny potential generic competitors access to the samples they need for
bioequivalence testing. In addition, the Commission’s comment explains how certain FDA
regulations may create unnecessary barriers to biosimilar and interchangeable competition, and

recommends that the FDA reconsider its naming guidance for biologics and expedite the
approval process for interchangeable biosimilars.

In addition to its domestic programs, the FTC engages in significant international work.
On the competition side, with the expansion of global trade and the operation of many companies
across national borders, the FTC and DOJ increasingly engage with foreign antitrust agencies to
ensure close collaboration on cross-border cases and convergence toward sound competition
policies and procedures.
Putting these principles into practice, the FTC effectively coordinates reviews of mergers
and cases of potential unilateral anticompetitive conduct under concurrent review with its
international counterparts to achieve effective, sound, and consistent outcomes. For example, in
the recent merger of medical device makers Abbott Laboratories and St. Jude Medical, Inc.,
Commission staff worked cooperatively with the staff of antitrust agencies in Brazil, Canada,
China, the European Union, Israel, Korea, and South Africa, including with respect to the
remedy and divestiture package.
The U.S. antitrust agencies also facilitate dialogue and promote convergence through
multiple channels, including bilateral relations with foreign competition agencies and an active
role in multilateral competition organizations. For example, in 2018, we held high-level bilateral
meetings with counterparts from China’s antitrust authorities to promote sound practice and
process in antitrust investigations. Our discussion topics included procedural fairness,
interagency cooperation, and antitrust treatment of the exercise of intellectual property rights.

The FTC will support the continued development of such initiatives, including recent
consultations with EC Competition Commissioner Vestager and her senior team, and upcoming
consultations with our counterparts from Canada and Mexico.
In addition, the FTC plays a key role in multilateral fora dedicated to facilitating dialogue
and convergence toward sound competition policy and enforcement. For example, the FTC led
the development, and is now promoting the implementation, of the International Competition
Network’s (ICN) Guidance on Investigative Process, the most comprehensive agency-led effort
to articulate principles and practices of procedural fairness in antitrust investigations. We also are
heading a project aimed at further developing the ICN’s flagship, its Recommended Practices for
Merger Notification and Review Procedures, which has resulted in more streamlined review of
cross-border transactions.
When appropriate, the FTC also works with other U.S. government agencies to ensure
that competition-related issues that also implicate broader U.S. policy interests, such as the
protection of intellectual property and non-discriminatory treatment towards U.S. companies, are
addressed in a coordinated and effective manner. For example, the FTC participated in
negotiating the relevant chapters of NAFTA, was a member of the U.S. team involved in shaping
G20 and G7 outcomes on digital economy issues, and has been part of interagency groups that
addressed economic and trade issues with China and Korea.
Last year, the FTC and DOJ issued updated Antitrust Guidelines for International
Enforcement and Cooperation to provide transparent guidance to the business community on our
international antitrust enforcement and cooperation policies, including on the territorial scope of
antitrust investigations and remedies.

As the members of this Subcommittee know, competitive markets are the foundation of
our economy, and effective antitrust enforcement helps ensure that those markets function well
and benefit both consumers and businesses. Thank you for this opportunity to share highlights of
the Commission’s recent enforcement, research, and advocacy work to promote competition and
protect consumers. 