https://www.cnn.com/2018/10/26/opinions/trump-administration-opioid-efforts-kellyanne-conway/index.html

Imagine if a plane carrying nearly 200 passengers fell from the sky each day. Americans would demand answers -- and action.

Drug overdoses now claim nearly 200 lives each day. That's more lives annually in the US than breast cancer, car accidents or gun violence. Another 2 million people currently suffer from an opioid use disorder.
The statistics are harrowing; the stories of loss heartbreaking. Yet in the year since President Donald J. Trump issued a nationwide call to action, and his administration declared a national public health emergency, our results and resolve offer some hope that the worst drug crisis in US history can be slowed, and eventually solved.
The results speak for themselves. Seizures of several kinds of illicit drugs are up, the number of new 30-day prescriptions is down and overdose deaths attributed to prescription pain medications have started to level.
Earlier this month, Congress passed H.R. 6, The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, the largest legislative effort in history to address a single drug crisis. Passage was overwhelmingly bipartisan (98-1 in the Senate and 396-14 in the House).

With the President's signature on Wednesday, the new law will expand access to evidence-based treatment, protect communities from illicit drugs, invest more in sustained recovery and workforce participation, continue to fight the stigma directed at people with addiction and raise public consciousness of the dangers of illicitly imported synthetic opioids like fentanyl.
This bill includes more money for infants born physically dependent on opioids and their parents. Assistance for children in foster care due to parental substance abuse is also included. First lady Melania Trump has been a leader in raising awareness and engagement about the effects the drug crisis bears on our youngest victims.
But the bill isn't the only step to combat the crisis. The administration, through its collaborative "Opioids Cabinet," staff from Cabinet departments and agencies engaged in combating the opioid crisis, has focused on a whole-of-government approach that aims to treat the whole person.
Veterans Affairs is publishing prescription rates, leveraging data and offering pain management services that do not include opioid pain medicine.

Health & Human Services has invested more than $1 billion into state and community driven efforts this fall alone. Meanwhile, the US surgeon general is urging Americans to carry the overdose-reversing drug, Naloxone.
The Department of Justice announced nearly $320 million to help ease recidivism and fuel law enforcement and interdiction efforts.
The Department of Agriculture is bridging the information and access gaps in rural communities -- working to educate them about grant opportunities and federal resources to fight the opioid crisis, while the Department of Interior is doing the same on tribal lands.
The Treasury Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development are working to set up Opportunity Zones, which will work to reskill workers and revitalize distressed neighborhoods, including those impacted by the opioid crisis.
The State Department is taking the fight to traffickers, securing commitments from allies at the United Nations to track and constrain narcotics trafficking.

More people than ever are receiving evidence-based medication -- assisted therapy for opioid addiction. One of these treatments, buprenorphine, has seen a 16% increase in new patients since President Trump took office.
And we are returning treatment decisions to the hands of trusted local experts on the front line. In September, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) awarded $930 million in grants to states to address the opioid crisis.
We are also breaking through the stigma and silence of the disease of addiction. In June, the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, in partnership with Truth Initiative and Ad Council, launched one of the largest public health ad campaigns in history, already generating 1 billion views and reaching 58% of young adults in the country.
This week, a new set of ads premiered. They tell the story of 26-year old Rebekkah's real experience of opioid withdrawal. Through efforts like our video sharing platform, Crisis Next Door, we continue to work so more Americans know that one out of every 24 people age 12 or older has reported misusing opioid medications in the past year.

The President lent his social media muscle and voice to what were record-breaking numbers of unwanted prescription drugs collected during the three National Prescription Drug Take-Back Days since he assumed office. In the span of 12 months, three take-back days netted 2.8 million pounds of pills -- enough to fill more than 10 Boeing 757s.

Each of these initiatives are a promise kept to the American people by a candidate and President who vowed to help a weary, hurting heartland.
This is not a crisis that can be solved through government action alone. Private sector partners are stepping up and stepping in to make a difference. On Wednesday, President Trump hosted 21 organizations who announced an array of efforts to combat the opioid crisis. Their work is innovative and groundbreaking. Major retail pharmacies like Walmart will now follow our evidence-based guidelines for opioid prescribing and CVS and Rite-Aid are committing to expand prescription disposal opportunities so we can make every day take back day.

Major tech companies like Facebook, Google and Amazon are committing to donate millions in advertising and leverage their platforms to spread awareness of the crisis and point people in need to vital resources.
Employers like Belden and MyPillow are changing their workplace policies to help connect employees struggling with addiction get the treatment they need, while continuing on a career path.
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and Cigna are expanding access to medication assisted treatment, and Emergent BioSolutions is offering Narcan, the overdose reversal medication, to every public library and YMCA in the country.

And Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) will launch a public awareness campaign to their young fan base on the dangers of opioid abuse and misuse.
The opioid and drug crisis does not discriminate. It has seeped past socioeconomic, demographic, political and geographic boundaries to affect every area of the country. This is no longer someone else's kid, someone else's co-worker, someone else's community.
President Trump agrees: When someone is struggling with addiction, we don't ask them how they voted, we ask them how we can help.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/i-am-woman-hear-me-roar.print

Sarah Palin said last week that the “mama grizzlies,” -- those women who are rising up and becoming advocates for their country -- would take back this nation. There is indeed a new breed of women activists in America today. Indeed, roughly 45% of Tea Party activists are women. However, they aren't like the women who came of age in the 60s and 70s who were shrugging off the "bondage" of children and families and rallying around a newfound independence. No, today's women activists have taken to the streets and the voting booths for just the opposite reason. These women are rising up in defense of their children, their grandchildren and their way of life.

The majority of women believe the stimulus has failed to create jobs and have rejected both bailouts and so-called health care reform. For the first time since Gallup has tracked the issue, the federal budget deficit – now over a trillion dollars – has replaced the economy, the environment and Social Security as the issue that worries Americans the most when they think about how America will look 25 years from now.

Why doesn't Washington get it? The nation's economic and fiscal health directly impacts women. They comprise a majority of the workforce partly because the recession has disproportionately affected men and has left women shouldering the burden of employment and kitchen table economics. They are the ones making the majority of financial decisions for their families, including health care decisions, yet it is women who will be paying the high price.
Only one-quarter of women say their economic situation will “definitely improve” over the next few years, a shockingly dour number for Americans who generally project optimism on financial outlook.

Therefore, it’s no surprise that all kinds of women, from young mothers pushing strollers all the way up to grandmas in their wheelchairs, have been making their voices heard in political rallies all across the country. Women, and their kids, were also out in full force outside the U.S. Capitol on the day of the vote on the health care law loudly shouting, “kill the bill." That energy will continue. Women make up a majority of voters in this year’s elections. The Tea Party, and politically engaged women generally, have flexed their electoral muscles in just a few states so far, including Virginia, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and in Rand Paul's win last night in Kentucky. A majority of the electorate in each state was female and fiscal conservatives won all three elections.

But in addition to seeking out and voting for fiscal conservatives, women want members of Congress who make good on their promises. There is no room for hypocrisy. The political maneuvering of Arlen Specter screams of insincerity and was not lost on women.

Although in past elections women could be counted to support liberals (Obama carried them by 11 points in 2008), to put it lightly, women are now suffering from buyer’s remorse. Nancy Pelosi, the first female Speaker of the House has negative approval ratings and women see the corruption and lack of traditional values that Congress has allowed to run rampant – and they don't like it. Candidates offering voters both social and fiscal conservatism are winning elections. And even though it was a Democrat who won the late John Murtha's seat, Mark Critz ran as a pro-life, pro-gun and anti-tax conservative who said he opposed Obamacare, even though Murtha did not.

The economy already has driven women, and Tea Partiers, to the polls and will continue to do so come November. Voters are fed up with Washington arrogance, corruption and runaway spending. But it’s not just Republican women. A majority of all women, regardless of political affiliation, oppose using tax dollars to pay for abortions, which was included in the health care bill. And according to a recent poll from the Pew Research Center, majorities of Republican, Democratic and independent women all said that “frustrated” best describes how they feel about the federal government.

It is this frustration that is so evident at the polls. This year is most certainly the year of the woman activist. “Girl Talk 2010” is mostly about economic issues. Women, who are paying the bills, are also paying attention.

http://time.com/4680550/kellyanne-conway-cpac-transcript/

First of all, everything that you’ve just said is complete and absolute blessing. You know, women in this country work so hard and not all of them get their shot. And I feel like I worked hard, but I also got my opportunity, which puts in a different category of blessings. I was raised in a house — I call it South Jersey’s version of “The Golden Girls,” with the house coves (ph) and everything.

Nobody ever had a single political conversation, by my mom, her mom, two of my mother’s unmarried sisters. My father left when I was very young, we have a great relationship now and he certainly does with my four children. But I was raised to be a very strong and independent woman without anybody ever saying the word feminist or having any political conversation.

We just were — we were taught to…

… be free-thinking, independent, to look at your goals. And that old saying, you could never go home was never true in my community. We always felt like we could go home. And I — I believe that Donald Trump is someone who is not fully understood for how compassionate and what a great boss he is to women. He has been promoting — he has been promoting and elevating women in the Trump Corporation — in the Trump campaign, in the Trump Cabinet, certainly in the Trump White House. It’s just a very natural affinity for him. And I feel very fortunate to have had the opportunity late in the campaign to work with an incredible team — I mean, really an incredible team — to be one of an incredible team, to help him get elected, particularly against a female candidate. And Hillary Clinton should be applauded for her willingness to serve publicly, but I thought it was very telling this year, Mercedes, that many women looked past the commonality of gender and were looking for what they shared in terms of issues, ideology, vision and just what they want out of their futures for themselves.

The work life balance that we all talk about…

… is not elusive to me. And I don’t have any special advice for America’s women, except to know who you are and to put your priorities in order and to not worry about the naysayers and critics say. I mean, nobody understands your life, but you. And really struggling as to whether or not to go inside the White House are to stay out. My children were first and foremost part of that decision. They are 12, 12, 8 and 7, four terrible ages.

And my 7- and 8-year-old are here somewhere. They’re visiting from (inaudible).

But it — but what I decided ultimately, is that I work for a man in the White House where that work life balance is welcome. I do think that many of my male colleagues, or all of them don’t — they appreciate the fact that they were raised by moms who either worked or didn’t, or worked inside the home or are married to women at the same ilk. But at the same time, it is different a set of considerations for women, and you have to — you have to put yourself last.

They come first obviously, but they’re also so attuned to politics in a way that I never was when I was their ages. They think about — they think about not just politics, but public policy. They think about their role in the world.

CONWAY: And I would tell my three daughters and your daughters, or you, that the job for first female president of the United States remains open, so go for it.

Well, I believe this generation, particularly the younger people don’t really like labels. And we don’t — we’re not necessarily joiners or liking to label ourselves. And I — that — that’s great in its own right.

So I don’t know about calling yourself a feminist. I also, for me, its difficult for me to call myself a feminist in the classic sense because it seems to be very anti-male and it certainly is very pro-abortion in this context. And I’m neither anti-male or pro- abortion, so.

There’s an individual feminism, if you will, that you make your own choices. Mercedes, I look at myself as a product of my choices, not a victim of my circumstances. And that’s really clearly…

… what conservatives, feminism, if you will, is all about. My mother didn’t feel sorry for herself, she was left with no child support, no alimony at a very young age, with a child to raise, a high school education and she just figured it out. She didn’t complain, she didn’t rely upon government, she relied upon her own skill set, her own self confidence, her own drive in moxie and her own duty to me and her and she relied upon her family and her faith.

And I believe those are timeless lessons and timeless opportunities for all women in — in similar circumstances and situations. And I would just say, I mean one thing that’s been a little bit disappointing and revealing, is that I hope will get better is, turns out that a lot of women just have a problem with women in power.

You know, this whole sisterhood, this whole let’s go march for women’s rights and, you know, just constantly talking about what women look like or what they wear, or making fun of their choices or presuming that they’re not as powerful as the men around.

This presumptive negativity about women in power I think is very unfortunate, because let’s just try to access that and have a conversation about it, rather than a confrontation about it.

Well, most of the strength and the leadership skills and the decisiveness, the resoluteness that I think this country was craving from its president, from a leader, is the same in public as it is in private.

I find him to be very kind and generous. I find him to have a great sense of humor. I’m genuinely interested in everybody’s lives, their own families, their own pursuit, their background, their knowledge.

He’s a man who just absorbs information and people and experiences. And I’ve witnessed him firsthand with his five children, his 10 year old son, his wife Melania, who’s just an incredible first lady for all of us, amazing.

God bless her, we’re all very luck to have her leadership, as well. And I’ve witnessed him with his four adult children and his eight grandchildren. He’s a family man. He is happiest when he’s with his family and that’s his — that — that really is a happy place for him to be with his family. And so he’s very generous, very kind, funny, compassionate.

And people should really think about when they see President Donald Trump, they should think about all the places that he was and could be. All the things he could be doing. The political motivators for many typical politicians of which he’s not one, Mercy, money, power, prestige, fame, he had all of that.

And he and his family have sacrificed mightily in those categories for him just to serve. And the idea that he is there because he wants to be there, because he believes in this country, he believes in its people. He believes in its promise, is very liberating and you see that when you’re with him privately, you see it publicly. But I find him to be incredibly gracious, energetic, I mean the greatest compliment you can get from Donald Trump is not hey, that’s brilliant or that was really smart or great job. It’s you’re really high energy.

At the campaign, I would tell the young staffers, if you see him coming around the corner, just start doing jumping jacks because…

It’s a bad thing.

But he works harder than anyone and he is just — he’s smarter and works harder than any of us and its — that’s very uplifting. You really wanna up your game when you’re around him and do your best for him.

And that goes for so many, if you look at the folks in the White House and I know you and your husband served in the White House, met in the White House…

I remember you being pregnant with Viana who I just saw was — is going to high school. But if you — if many who work in the White House, you know, so many were faring at gold mines and giving up their own businesses or own lives or privacy, because you want to serve this president and this country at this time, which is very fraught, but it’s also very promising.

You know, I try to look at it through the positive side of the ledger. So much is negative these days, its so much as automatic, what can I find wrong in this and a bunch of trouble makers. Frankly, I just think if they looked at it more positively and look at all the promise and the opportunity we have for this country, people feel really optimistic many places where we go.

Well, I think by tomorrow, this will be TPAC when he’s here, no doubt.

You know, every great movement and which the conservative movement is, of course, every great movement ends up being a little bit sclerotic and dusty after a time and I think they need new fusion of energy. And in the case of Candidate Trump and President-elect and Nominee Trump, he went right to the grassroots and brought you along. He — he made people feel from the beginning, they were part of this movement.

And being part of a movement means you’re not just witnessing a campaign externally, which is why I think a lot of activists felt over the years, a different — a different period of time which is that they’re just witnessing history rather than being a part of it.

People felt really fully engaged, they felt like they had a seat at the table from the beginning. And I believe because it was such a tough competition in the Republican primary, he had 17 candidates, most of who made their way through CPAC over the years, that he earned the nomination in a way that was bottom up, instead of top down.

He really replaced this fiction of electability with this revelation of electricity and brought people in. Also, I think Donald Trump because he’s not a legacy candidate, he’s not a Bush or a Clinton, he’s sort of the first candidate of his type that non- politician, true outsider, was coming to shake up the system…

That seems to me to be very relatable and resonant with CPAC, because CPAC you know, the courage that so — so many of you show in your communities, in your places of work and your places of worship, certainly on your college campuses where you definitely feel like you’re in the ideological minority, that — that that kind of courage, that outsider status, is very much who Donald Trump is. And I believe how he got here and I personally, wanted to come here today as counselor, but also, really as the former campaign manager to thank you for everything you did, for the courage you showed, through the activity…

Whether you stood in line, came to a rally, drove seniors to the polls, got people engaged in a conversation about public policy, we really owe it all to you. Those margins of victories were slim in some of those states. But to have carried states for the first time in decades, was truly remarkable and I think it’s a combination of Donald Trump and Mike Pence as the best messengers quality candidates and really, the grassroots to helping deliver in that way.

I just wanted to comment personally, thank you.

Several different ways; first of all, don’t live online, live in real time. I’m just astonished how many people live online.

On Facebook, Twitter, texting, e-mails, remember, it’s a mode of communication, it is not communication. It’s not real life. So step aside, make sure people see something other than the top of your head and live in real time, in the real world.

Have a conversation with people, engage other folks. There are so many people who are out there, who agree with you, or don’t realize that they agree with you or want to learn more about repealing, replacing Obamacare or (inaudible) for what it means to have school choice and charter schools, et cetera.

So engage in those conversations. Also, know who you are and possess that confidence and just tune out the naysayers and the critics in a way where you feel like you possess a certain patience and perspective that many of us in the bubble lack.

CONWAY: And recognize also, that four years, eight years, is a long time, it’s much longer than the first four weeks. So keep that perspective, join different clubs, start different clubs that don’t exist. Go ahead and — and be bold, write letters to the editor, become a blogger, make your voices known, and — and be willing to — to be willing to hear the word, no, more than you say it. You will be rejected, somebody else will — will get the job you wanted or someone else will be the president of the club that you felt you deserved to be. But don’t say the word no.

Opportunity does not always knock twice. You have to make some of your own opportunities and you have to go in and grab those. And also, because I see a lot of old timers like me in the audience, too, so I don’t want to — I don’t want to give them short shrift. Thank you for sticking with the conservative movement. Thank you for believing in a set of ideas and principles that are timeless beyond politics, beyond any one political candidate or party, which is far less important, frankly, than the idea that you bring to bear.

Converse with each other, help each other out. I learned so much from our younger staffers, a great deal of technologies, their native tongue, they had these great experiences and great perspectives. And they learn form us. Go ahead and mentor folks and do that exchange of information and ideas. Be willing to have a lunch or a coffee with someone. Don’t be too busy for other people is really what I would say, don’t be too busy for each other because that is something also today that I — I find to be incredibly unfortunate.

One last piece of advice?

I have one last piece of advice for women just because I — I want to tell a story that everybody always begs me to tell, I’ve been telling it for a long time, some of you may have heard it before. I often, in my career, literally didn’t know how to express my value and ask for what I thought I deserved and I had earned. And so, this is a long time ago story that still is enduring to this moment. I remind myself of it almost every day. I was young in my career, my company was a year old. I was a CNN paid political analyst at the time. And somebody called from a speaking agency and said, hey, we have a request from this financial institution for you and Mark Mellman, Democratic pollster, obviously a man, to come and speak to us on September 28th, about the elections. And I said, OK. And the man said, it’s September 28, you can each speak for 20 minutes, then we’ll take 20 minutes Q&A preview, which we think will happen in the election, and talk to us a little bit about public policy.

I said, that sounds great. It’ll be at the Mayflower Hotel, which I can see out my office window. I literally was a block and half from there. They said, what is your speaking fee? And I froze.

I completely froze because for me, even with my law degree at the time, for me free speech was not the First Amendment, it was let’s go call Kellyanne, she’ll come, she’ll talk for free.

And I froze because I knew no matter what I said in return to the question of what is your speaking fee, what are you worth, what is your value to do this, no matter what I said I was going to undercut myself. I was going to be that self-denying girl who grow up in that house of all women, a giver not a taker, and so I froze and I thought, my god, what am I going to say. It’s not his fault if I undercut my value. So, having no idea how to assess my value for that particular speech, I took — I took a line out — out of “When Harry Met Sally” and I said, I’ll have what’s he’s having.

And the man said — on the other line, he said 20 years ago, this is 1996, I was 28 years old. I’m 50 you don’t have to do the math.

I just turned 50. 50’s like the new 49 and nothing better, let me tell you.

I said, (inaudible). He said, excuse me? And I said, well, you said Mark Mellman and I were going to do the same thing, show up at the same time, give the same remarks, so I’ll have what he’s having. And the man said, in 1996 having never gotten a dollar to give a speech before, he said, well, Mark requested $3,500, would that be. And I said, that’ll be fine.

And I hung up the phone and I fell to the floor. I was so excited. So, when in doubt, just say I’ll have what he’s having.

https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/kellyanneconwaymarchforlife2017.htm

I am a wife, a mother, a Catholic, Counselor to President of the United States of America, and, yes, I am pro-life.

It is such an honor to stand with the Vice President of the United States, and with so many leaders, families, and students from places near and far to defend the unborn. Your courage, your conviction, your resolve, and your faith are impressive -- and consequential.

This is a new day, a new dawn for life.

Why are we here? What does it mean to stand together to be part of this incredible movement -- to face criticism, ridicule, laws and lawmakers that diminish and erode our most basic right and the bedrock of our society?

It means, to protect and to promote the most precious the most precious gift in the world: the gift of life.

It means, to stand up, stand tall, and stand together against the indifference and the indefensible; and to stand up, stand tall, and stand together on behalf of babies in the womb.

It is no coincidence that the first right cited in the Declaration of Independence is the right to life. It is a right. It is not a privilege. It is not a choice. It is God-given. It -- It is unique and it is beautiful.

This dismissive notion of "out of sight, out of mind" is over. Science and medicine have joined religion and morality in causing many Americans to rethink just how fragile and how triumphant human life truly is.

Look at a sonogram. Meet a thriving toddler who was born at 24 weeks and who, with proper medical intervention, goes on to have a long and healthy life. Speak to the many women who have faced challenges becoming and remaining pregnant -- and then welcomed a miracle. Talk to the couples who are now parents because adoption, not abortion, was the best choice.

Every day is a fight for life, yet today is also a celebration of life. It is a time to lift your voices and lift your spirits.

Steps away from here in the White House, a President and a Vice President sit at their desks and make decisions for a nation. As they sit there, they stand here with you. Their impassioned defenses of life as presidential candidates showed a nation that courage and commitment can overcome indifference and insults. And their decisive action as President and Vice President will further this conversation and this cause.

This is a time of incredible promise for the pro-life, pro-adoption movement. Our message and our positive action must also reach those women who face unplanned pregnancies. They should know they're not alone; they are not judged. They, too, are protected and cared for and celebrated.

So, to the March for Life 2017, allow me to make it very clear: We hear you. We see you. We respect you. And we look forward to working with you. And, yes, we walk, we march, we run, and we endeavor forward with you.

God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

https://www.c-span.org/video/?435647-6/kellyanne-conway-remarks-values-voter-summit

first of all, thank you very much for having me, for having the president earlier, and i wanted to thank each and every one of you. this is the first values voter summit since the election. i wanted to thank you to view, whether you held firm, cast your ballot, helped others get to the ballot box. if you knocked on a door or held her own in the argument with an in law or neighbor last year, if he gave a couple bucks to the campaign, however you contributed in your own way, i just came to say thank you on behalf of all of us and urge you to keep on fighting. the president said very recently in a different forum, tony, that he has a lot of alignment with people in this room, because he understands what it is like to be under siege, and i know you do as well, and we very much appreciate you standing firm and loving your country, freedom, democracy, and pushing us forward as well. now, i don't know how i would be able to do any of this without lacey. when you are raised in a faith centric household, you realize from the beginning that there is always something bigger and better than you. that humility is a very important attribute to take to any position that has such great gravity and responsibility as i seal hours do in the white house. i feel incredibly privileged and blast to serve my country at this moment, in this position, and if i approach it that way, i am approaching it as a woman of faith, and somebody who knows that for every time there is a season and that god places us in certain areas at certain point in our life. the greatest professional privilege of my life is to work with the president, the vice president, and this great nation. the greatest privilege of my life by far is being a mother to four children. thnothing compares to that for me, and i think having a full life is very important to me because it really cuts down on all the noise in the nonsense and puts things into perspective immediately and constantly. it's really great to be impervious to naysayers and critics. i turned my notifications off on twitter in january and it changed my life, i recommend everybody do it. some people are incapable of it because they spend all day looking at their notifications. it's just, i am not in the white house to read about myself, i am there to serve and work on significant issues and challenges of the day.  and that has been very helpful. you can't do that without fiath, so, because if you are too involved with yourself you will get caught up in the praise and criticism. this is the rebalancing. also my faith informs beliefs. i have often said -- as tony said over the years, that you attract people culturally -- show me how somebody spends their weekend off and i will tell you how they will vote. for me, my faith informs many of my beliefs. i am proudly pro-life, the president of the united states --  -- march for life back in january and i was proud to stand on that stage and looked out at thousands and thousands of people standing in the cold because they believe along with millions of more to profess their pro-life views. and why that is important is i have been working on pro-life messaging for decades, literally. and it took a manhattan billionaire mail who served part of his adult life as pro-choice for abortion rights to give the most impactful debate i have ever heard --  that is really important. and it also helps you to respect other people's viewpoints. what i am struck by in this audience is all the applause the president got because we are reminded again that evangelical christians at the ballot box and in conversation they are not single issue voters, they are passionate about the pro-life and profamily agenda but listen to the applause he got when talked about health care and tax reform, the array and deal, struggles around the world in combating terrorism. i think you are all happy that you have a president to his willing to call terrorists terrorists.  speaking of notifications, i have been waiting for that tweet to come from donald trump about the values voters so i imagine that will be coming shortly. no comment?  you mentioned your greatest privileges to be a mom of your four children. you are serving a president to understands the value and the importance of family. i have a net in his interactions with his children and it makes it helpful to you as a mom to work for somebody like that. that is the great untold story, i think, of the white house as a workplace. across corporate america did you get handbooks and page 500 will talk about the family-friendly policies and when you try to execute on them by taking half the day off or talking about a little vacation with your family it becomes very difficult to execute on those family-friendly policies that are in writing. i work in the white house, in a workplace where working moms and women are respected and elevated to the highest positions, he took a chance on women in new york real estate when no one else would and is very comfortable and natural to surround himself and elevate and promote women to the highest positions and for him to always be respectful of who we are personally, what our home life is like, whether we are married or not, have children or not -- he is always interested in the personal story of everyone. he is a great storyteller himself so it is a wonderful way to engage with the boss. but he is also somebody who elevated another woman into a cabinet post and now he will have two women at the department of homeland security. the thing about donald trump that i have never heard him a is i think this will help with the women, or this is great because you are a woman. he doesn't see it that way. he doesn't have the identity politics the other side is so wrapped up in -- you have to look at a person for who they are, as a complex individual, certainly in many different ways democratically and situationally. but if i didn't work for a president and vice president and their spouses all four of whom i know and admire deeply, if i didn't work for them and didn't know who they were and how family centric they are then i wouldn't be there. there would be no reason to be there. i appreciate that because i hear a lot of people on their soapboxes, the high horse calamari, always talking about women's rights and women's empowerment -- i am an environment where it is practiced regularly and have never felt otherwise. and i think there's a great juxtaposition -- one of the major influencers in hollywood in major democratic donor being ensnared in some pretty ugly stuff and the juxtaposition of that is that r.i.m in a place where women are respected and i appreciate that as a working mom and i also want to tell each of you --  -- that we kept open the first female president of the united states job.  by the way, if you need another female recommendation for homeland security, my wife is good with a shotgun around the house.  the president, every time i have spoken to the president since the election, he reminds me of how strong the evangelical social conservative vote was for him. how much we love him, and we do, we love him and appreciate him. he reminded us of the promises that he made. i remember when he promised he would come back and she kept that promise today -- how important is it to this administration that the entire administration stand with the president in the fulfillment of the promises he made to the american people? it is very important and i want to correct the record slightly -- we don't look at you as voters, we look at you as fellow americans and travelers on this journey and if there are people in this audience, certainly people here, who didn't vote for president trump, he is your president and he is there for you and he said that on november 9, that i will be the president of all americans even those who didn't support me , and he means that and he continues to do that. he made promises and he looks at some of these not just as campaign promises but this recipe's and our time and moral imperatives. replacing obamacare -- i saw a journalist wrote somewhere the reason he wants to repeal obama care is because it has the word obama in it. that is not true color for the 28 million americans -- don't flatter yourself.   it is for the 28 million americans who don't have health insurance, for the people who were lied to that they can keep their doctor and their plan, it is for those who he is helping through the executive order who are caught in the middle between people like you and me who get health benefits through their employers and the millions who get them through the government, medicaid and medicare, it is for those who can't afford the coverage, because you spent gazillions of dollars on website that didn't work. don't confuse principles with personality. do not confuse policy and politics.  i know you have gone through the list of his pro-life appointments, he has done so many things that are there to help people that don't get covered, the incomplete coverage i take is really regrettable because people aren't being connected with the information they need to know what's important to them. to your point, should the administration -- the president is somebody who is an excellent listener, i know that firsthand. he accepts and expects differing viewpoints, it ideas. this is the way he has been a successful businessman his whole career and he takes it into the white house because he believes in listening and negotiating and learning, but he is the ultimate decision-maker. i like to say i will review a list in the white house of everybody who was elected to anything and if you don't see yourself on the list, get with the program. here's a list -- donald trump and michael pence. are you on the list? he was elected to be the president of the united states and he takes that responsibility varies areas like but he never takes it monolithic lay, in an isolated fashion. and i think the cabinet he has henpecked is one he engages with regularly and i love watching it up close and personal because it is the way a democracy should run, taking all the information -- it doesn't matter to me, it matters that he gets information that is important in terms of the decision-making process. i want to get personal for just a moment. not too personal. as the senior counselor to the president, what is that like? let us see a day in the life of kelly and. -- of kellyanne. that you don't want to see.  it begins with getting for kids to school. i am there in the morning until they leave, so that is terrific, because we were separated for the end of their school last year. that is wonderful, and talk about humbling yourself. when you can't find the uniform, i know for all of those out there whose decisions are yoga or pilates -- i feel blessed to have a different set of decisions in the morning. for me, when i get to the white house in the morning, i say a prayer as i walk in because every day i asked the lord to bless everyone who works in the building, everyone who that building represents, to pray for safety --  -- our security, our understanding. within the multitude of counselors and my day is mainly in policy meetings because this is a great example -- this week there were six major policy initiatives, immigration, tax reform, you ran -- there is always something happening at the trump pace. most of my days are in policy meetings. as counselor to the president i am there to some or 10, we have very talented people in communications but i spent three or 5% of my time engaging with media on tv because you can't be an effective communicator unless you understand the policy. you really have to understand the ins and outs of policy and i think that's what the country deserves to hear. that is very important. that is everything from tax reform to health care to immigration, to some of the foreign policy meetings, infrastructure meetings -- then some of the issues that are directly in my portfolio like opioids, probably 10% of my day on the opioid issue in the west wing. very happy to have the president and first lady and all of our administration and the entire cabinet engaged on the issue. it is the scourge of our times and it is the epidemic next door. this is not somebody else's community, it is all of us and it is our responsibility as a nation to get on the winning side of this because currently we are on the losing side. issues like military self-employment for example --  it's just a dizzying pace of meetings and also because i spent decades as a pollster to try to bring the data in, whether it's public opinion data or economic data or cultural data, any study that is relevant to what my coworkers are working on. and then i tend to travel frequently for the administration -- i am given my own schedule, i traveled with the first lady to west virginia this week. i find myself doing more speeches to touch americans, and i have the great privilege of two decades as a pollster -- i went to find out how it's playing in pr you. i had visited all these states to hear from people, what they think, to get their input. i think that has equipped me tremendously to remember why we are there -- it is for the country, and to understand why people disagree. i think a lot of these issues suffer from information overload but i think you are not being told everything you need to be told about these issues. go to whitehouse. gov and you will get a lot of the information, or pay attention to what the president is saying and doing and don't get the filtered version -- that is what's so great about 2017, where you can get the information and often many people are not connecting with all the great things that have happened, not telling americans about meaningful tax cuts and what it truly would mean to have a more competitive environment to repatriate these trillions of dollars sitting offshore legally, what it means to have an expanded childcare and elder care tax credit, how it impacts you to have employers to go from 30% to 20%. it affects you mightily because that money gets reinvested in its employees and inventory, and the infrastructure that surrounds that company. why are you trying to repeal and replace obamacare? that has helped many americans but it has hurt many more and we have had the obamacare victims in the white house, they are real people with names. i see them in press accounts with quotes around their name -- they told us their stories and we are there to help them and if you feel like you can do one tiny molecule of help that is a privilege beyond anything i thought i could being raised by a single mom and i think that is a true american dream, when you are in a position to help other people and you take that position and refuse to look the other way and that is i think why we are there. i know it is why the president is there, why they have agreed to serve at this time, at this level.  kellyanne, speaking -- we are almost out of time -- people across america who care deeply about this problem, how can they help the president advance the agenda, the promises made, advance the message that you just articulated for carrying it across the country? first of all, you are helping. without you, without having ambassadors for that message all across country, we won't succeed the way we can, because it is incredibly important that people feel like they are part of this. i think it is something that mr. trump loved to do in his campaign, his voice, his choice, not the conventional political campaign but people felt like they were part of the movement. this is much more important because this is our nation, and what you can do is to have a 72nd version for anyone willing to listen, why i support the president -- the best thing he has done is ask, why, -- -- is x, y, z. why i think he is the most pro-life president in our lifetime. you come up with the answer in your own voice and the reason it's important it is your voices because you are much more effective than any of us can be -- people see you in their churches and their communities in their places of work and will say i like you and you were like me. those two attributes are so incredibly important, to have that identity with you. we go to the same school and church and community center, we live in the same neighborhood, i like you and you are like me. that is much more accessible and much more relatable and much more antic then getting the message in any other number of ways stop i will end by telling a story -- this is a great example of reaching out where you think we can be of assistance if there is a great opportunity for the president or vice president to come and speak -- last august 17 it was announced that the president had expanded his campaign team and the next day i was on for my first phone call his campaign manager as the president went to the airport and he was giving his regret speech in north carolina. i said, tomorrow the governor has agreed to clear his schedule and go down to baton rouge, because they were suffering from severe flooding. we were all looking at the images on the tv, with people in great need, as we have seen all too recently and all too often this year. i said, the governor is going to go down into we are going to connect him with some false on the ground in some first responders, tony perkins is involved -- he said could i go, too? i said, it's my first day on the job, what's the answer? i guess the answer is always yes. there's a fundraiser in minnesota, there's a speech here. that was such a telling moment to me, and that is such the essence of this president, that he comes up with these ideas and says -- he intuitively knows where he should be to help and he went down to baton rouge and they wrote a check -- they listened and they learned and they helped and i remember the sitting president was on his vacation -- the other candidate never went down, this is not the way people in baton rouge felt about it. it's a great story but it is i hope asked and answered of what can you do. you can also bring to our attention great stories of triumph and recovery and hardiness, of great and determination of america, and point out to us people in need. we are the federal government, and we believe that those closest to the people in need are those best equipped to know how we can best help and we would like to hear it. kellyanne conway, thank you.