https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/wages-tax-reform-going-americas-workers/

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduces the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and allows full expensing for business investment in equipment. Opponents, echoing leftists from Marx to Piketty, describe those provisions as giveaways to the wealthy at the expense of the working class. They’re wrong.

In a dynamic, competitive economy, the relationship between companies and their employees is symbiotic, not antagonistic. Research by economists Alan Krueger and Lawrence Summers, both of whom served in the Obama administration, shows that more-profitable employers pay higher wages. Any company that attempts to pay a worker less than he is worth will quickly lose that worker to a competitor. Thus, firms that want to thrive must invest in their plants and workers.

When profits go up, capital investment goes up, and wages follow. That’s the reason we estimated, based on what has happened around the world, that households will get an average $4,000 wage increase from corporate tax reform, once its changes are fully implemented and swoosh through the nation’s economic engine.Naysayers have been invested in the law’s failure from day one. But the data are already proving them wrong. An increase in the return to investment should drive investment and profits up, increase productivity and wages, and ultimately boost economic growth. Here’s what we’ve seen so far this year:

More investment. The president’s promise to lower corporate taxes and reduce red tape has led to a surge in American business investment. Real private nonresidential fixed investment increased 6.3% during the fourth quarter of 2017, according to data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Equipment investment rose 8.9%, thanks largely to the tax law’s allowance for full expensing of equipment investment retroactively to September 2017. In March 2018, the Morgan Stanley Co mposite Capital Expenditure Plans Index reached its highest level since it began tracking in 2006.
Greater productivity. Capital investment raises capital per worker and thus labor productivity. Here again, the early signs are positive. For perspective, real private nonresidential fixed investment was anemic at the end of the Obama administration: On a year-over-year basis, it fell 0.6% in 2016. As a result, during the postrecession expansion under President Obama (2010-16), the moving four-year average contribution that capital made to labor productivity growth in the private sector turned negative for the first time in history. But boosted by a strong finish to the year, capital added 0.3 percentage point to productivity growth in 2017—and will add more in 2018 if the Morgan Stanley index is correct.
Pay raises. The average increase in wages from the year-earlier period for January through March 2018 is the highest for any three-month period since mid-2009. A flurry of corporate announcements provide further evidence of tax reform’s positive impact on wages.
As of April 8, nearly 500 American employers have announced bonuses or pay increases, affecting more than 5.5 million American workers, as a result of the TCJA. Walmart , the largest private employer in the country, has announced a $2-an-hour increase in the starting wage of new workers and $1-an-hour rise in its base wage for employees of more than six months. For someone working 40 hours a week, that is up to $3,040 per year in additional pay.

Other employers have done the same, including BB&T Bank, where full-time workers earning the bank’s minimum wage will see a $6,000 increase in their annual income. Companies that have announced new bonus plans have lifted compensation by an average of $1,150. Ten firms have also announced minimum-wage hikes that imply annual income gains of at least $4,000 for full-time workers.

Faster growth. Forecasters around the world are now predicting this growth can be sustained. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has boosted its forecasts for real U.S. economic growth in 2018 and 2019 to nearly 3% to reflect the impact of the TCJA. The Congressional Budget Office also increased its growth projection for this year and next by an average of one percentage point relative to its last forecast before the tax bill was passed.
With the political battle over passage behind us, economists are again focusing on the data. All indications are that the tax bill delivered a much-needed boost to capital-starved American workers, and wages are doing what economics says they should when companies invest aggressively in more and better machines and share profits with workers. Perhaps it is a time to put aside the archaic notion that the conflict between capital and labor is the central story of our society. In a modern competitive economy, workers do well when their employers do.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/tax-reform-going/

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017, enacting several tax cuts and tax reforms.

The top statutory Federal corporate tax rate was reduced from 35 to 21 percent, putting America’s corporate tax rate below the OECD average. Previously, our effective rate had been the highest in the OECD, which put America’s businesses and the workers they employ at a disadvantage in the global economy.
The new tax law also entails significant international reforms – a territorial tax system, deemed repatriation, and anti-base erosion rules. Shifting from a worldwide system to a territorial system ends the penalty on headquartering a company in the United States. All of these items will keep American jobs in America.
On the individual side:
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act nearly doubles the standard deduction, simplifying tax filing and lowering the burden of tax compliance for millions of American families.
Every income group experiences a tax cut.
The child tax credit doubles to $2000, expands to benefit more families, and becomes refundable to more of those who are eligible to benefit from it and the refund amount is increasing. These reforms to the child tax credit help America’s working families keep more of the paychecks they earn.
The new law maintains a number of popular tax benefits. These include the: mortgage interest deduction, charitable giving deduction, the Earned Income Tax Credit, adoption expense credit, child and dependent care tax credit, tax benefits for retirement saving, and many others.
Wage growth has been stagnant for much of the past two decade. Between the business cycle peaks in 2007 and 2016, wage growth was negative: the first time this has happened between business cycle peaks since at least 1980, according to CEA’s analysis. The question then becomes: why did wage growth recently depart from its historical trajectory?

One possible answer suggests itself from trends in capital deepening, which measures capital per worker. Capital per worker influences wage growth by influencing productivity: as workers have more capital, they can produce more stuff per hour, and their employers can afford to compensate them more per hour.

Note: Capital deepening is the contribution to labor productivity growth of more capital per worker hour. Labor productivity growth is in the private non-farm business sector. Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Net Multifactor Productivity and Cost; CEA calculations

Much as wage growth turned negative recently, so did capital deepening turn negative for the first time since WWII in 2014. It is possible the overlap between these two aberrations is a coincidence.

It is, however, also possible that policies that discouraged the investment of capital in America played a role. One of these was America’s corporate tax rate. But, with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act now enacted, America’s corporate tax position stands to encourage rather than discourage investment and therefore wage growth in America.

Meanwhile, America’s broken corporate tax system also inflated America’s trade deficit.

The evidence suggests that the effects of a corporate tax rate cut are large. The corporate income tax base stands to increase, allowing America’s tax rate to fall while revenues remain unchanged.

As the government tends not to lose money, the government does not experience an increase in debt from a corporate tax cut, according to this evidence. Nor does the government experience a rise in interest rates.

Now that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act stands to deliver these benefits, GDP growth forecasts of Wall Street’s largest banks (Bulge Bracket firms) are up from an average 1.9 percent in October 2016 to nearly 2.5 percent in January 2018.

These echo the results of CEA’s previous analysis, which suggested that that corporate tax reform will increase GDP growth by 0.3 to 0.5 percent this year. While CEA did not model the individual growth rate effects, other economists like Barro and Redlick (2011) estimate that the individual side of the reform will add an additional 0.8 percent growth through 2019.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-cea-chairman-kevin-hassett-japan-center-economic-research/

Good morning. I’m pleased to be here today, having been asked to offer an overview and diagnosis of the state of the U.S. economy.

If you had asked me to deliver such remarks twenty months ago, I would have said the U.S. economy was struggling. In the six and a half years between the start of the recovery in 2009:Q3 and the end of 2015, growth in real GDP averaged 2.2 percent, slowing to just 1.8 percent in 2016. Since the 2009:Q2 economic trough, labor productivity growth in the private nonfarm business sector through the end of 2016 averaged just 1.0 percent—less than half the pre-crisis postwar average of 2.3 percent and the slowest of any postwar expansion.

This was in part because, for the first time in postwar U.S. history, the contribution of capital deepening to labor productivity growth turned negative on a sustained basis, and was in fact, on average, negative for the entire 2010-2016 period, compared to an historical average of 1 percentage point.

In other words, during the post-2009 expansion, depreciation of existing capital per worker was exceeding investment. Indeed, in the six and a half years between the start of the recovery in 2009:Q3 and 2015, growth in real private nonresidential fixed investment averaged 4.8 percent, and slowed to just 0.7 percent in 2016.

What makes this record so shocking is that it is historically highly atypical. Not only was it slow by historical standards, it was also contrary to empirical evidence—confirmed by recent peer-reviewed research—that in the United States, deeper recessions are typically succeeded by steeper expansions, and that this correlation is in fact stronger when the contraction is accompanied by a financial crisis. Since the nineteenth century, the recent recovery was one of only three exceptions to this pattern.

So what was going on? Back in graduate school, one of the first topics that captured my interest was the question of how responsive demand for capital services is to the cost of capital. The empirical challenge, of course, is that changes in the cost of capital are not random. In particular, there is potential simultaneity bias from the fact that legislatures tend to lower corporate tax rates and raise investment tax incentives during periods of economic contraction, and to raise corporate taxes (and withdraw investment credits and other incentives) during periods of economic expansion. Obviously, such bias would lead economists to underestimate the responsiveness of demand for capital services to changes in the cost of capital.

When one properly accounts for this bias, as Alan Auerbach and I showed in one of my first peer-reviewed publications, one in fact observes much larger effects of the cost of capital on business investment than the academic literature had previously been estimating.

Several decades on, our inference that tax policy influences behavior seems to have stood the test of time, as a battery of peer-reviewed publications is now showing that a 1 percent decline in the cost of capital raises the demand for capital services by 1 percent. The capacity of economic research to identify the causal effects of variation in policy has also grown. The literature’s arc towards larger rather than smaller estimates of the effects of policy variables is all around us, and in the top journals. Consider, for instance, the emergence of what is called “the narrative approach” to identifying the effects of tax policy on economic activity. These methodologies harness advances in computational power and natural language processing to identify the stated motivations of the policymakers that Alan and I worried about back in the 90s.

While no single paper can be decisive, consider that the February 2018 online issue of the Quarterly Journal of Economics features an article that draws on this narrative approach to estimate the responsiveness of personal income with respect to marginal tax rates. The paper’s headline estimates were north of 1 for 1—very high by contemporary standards as well as those of the literature a couple decades ago. And this paper is not alone, but rather is just the latest in a growing list of articles exploiting the narrative approach to land in top five economics journals—Romer and Romer, Mertens and Ravn, Mertens and Montiel Olea, Cloyne, Hayo and Uhl.

But the identification of causal effects from econometric estimates can require assumptions about the structure and functional form of relationships between a specified set of policy variables and measures of economic activity. That is in addition to the requirement, of course, that you have the relevant data at hand in the first place—a requirement typically only satisfied in hindsight. But we value knowing now whether the policy is working as intended. The observation of the variation in forecasts before and after a policy is changed offers one way of looking at the policy’s likely effects, just as Alan and I did in our first paper. And so, as we economists wait for evaluations of the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on economic growth to percolate through the peer-review process and into academic journals, looking at changes in growth forecasts before and after the TCJA offers one way to gauge its expected effect on growth.

The evolution of recent forecast revisions is quite revealing, and consistent with the tax act having a large effect on growth expectations. If one looks, for example, at the Blue Chip consensus forecast for four-quarter real GDP growth in 2018 and 2019, it was roughly flat throughout most of 2017, as media coverage of the legislative prospects for the Administration’s economic agenda was generally pessimistic. Consensus forecasts through November 2017 were therefore low—2.3 to 2.4 percent in 2018 and 2.1 percent in 2019.

Since November, however, we’ve seen steady upward revisions in private forecasts. As of last month, the Blue Chip consensus forecast is now for 2018 growth of 2.9 percent, and 2019 growth of 2.3 percent, upward revisions of 0.6 and 0.2 percentage point since the tax act was passed. Official forecasts revisions suggest an even bigger bump. In its last forecast before the tax bill was passed, the Congressional Budget Office projected growth of 2.0 and 1.5 percent in 2018 and 2019. That has now been revised up substantially—to 3.3 and 2.4 percent, respectively. In other words, the CBO now projects growth to be more than a percentage point higher, on average, over the next two years than they did a year ago. In addition, over the same timeframe, the CBO revised up its forecast of the effect of economic growth on projected corporate income tax receipts over the 2018-2027 period by $476 billion, which exceeds the CBO’s own $409 billion static score of the TCJA.

Ex ante, knowing only that the TCJA passed, based on my paper on corporate tax rates and the Laffer curve with Alex Brill, one could have predicted such a revenue increase. It is also consistent with what we would expect from the empirical literature. The corporate income tax base is highly responsive to changes in effective corporate tax rates for the same reason that investment is highly responsive to changes in effective corporate tax rates—it’s because capital is mobile!

In April, the International Monetary Fund released its April 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO). Global growth for 2018 was revised up 0.2 percentage point from its October WEO release to 3.9 percent year-over-year. The IMF attributes roughly half of the global growth revision to changes in U.S. fiscal policy. When honing in on the United States, the IMF’s April 2018 update to its October 2017 World Economic Outlook revised up its growth forecast by 0.6 percentage point from October to 2.9 percent year-over-year. According to the IMF, one reason for this upward revision is the macroeconomic effects stemming from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed in December.

The IMF’s April upwards revision to its October global growth forecast in the wake of the passage of the TCJA follows the OECD’s own March upwards revision to its November global growth forecast. For the U.S., its 2018 outlook increased by 0.4 percentage point to 2.9 percent and its 2019 outlook increased by 0.7 percentage point to 2.8 percent. And the OECD’s March Economic Outlook cited as one of the “key factors behind the upward revision to global growth prospects in 2018 and 2019” the “tax reductions . . . announced in the last three months.”

I note in passing that these revisions are almost exactly what our analysis from last year implied they would be once the bill passes.

As for global growth, CEA’s own, very preliminary in-house analysis finds that exogenous tax changes in the world’s largest economy may have surprisingly large effects on global growth, suggesting the recent rise in growth expectations around the world is more the result of fiscal developments in the United States than the other way around. Applying the Romer & Romer exogenous tax shock series to a global vector autoregressive model indicates that a 1 percent cut in U.S. taxes as a fraction of GDP raises growth in the European Union and Rest of the World by almost 1 percent in the year immediately following, with a peak impact of over 1 percent after 2 years. While wide error bands suggest that we shouldn’t attach much weight to these point estimates, the important result is that we can reject the null hypothesis of no effect with 95 percent confidence.

Though the mechanisms relating exogenous U.S. tax changes to global growth remain an open and, I believe, fascinating question for our ongoing work, the magnitude of the effect strongly suggests they extend far beyond the arithmetic relationship implied by the U.S. share of global GDP. Our own intuition is that other countries often learn from U.S. success, and respond to first-moves by 25 percent of the world economy with adoption of similar policies.

But don’t just believe the forecasts. You can already see the effects emerging in the data. Growth of business fixed investment rose every quarter of 2017 to average 6.3 percent for the year, according to data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, up from just 0.7 percent in 2016. In the first quarter of 2018, it jumped again, to 10.4 percent. Growth of equipment investment jumped to 11.6 percent in 2017:Q4 and 5.8 percent in 2018:Q1, thanks largely to the tax law’s allowance for full expensing of equipment investment retroactively to September 2017.

Business investment in structures and intellectual property has also surged—up 16.2 percent in Q1 for structures, and 13.2 percent for intellectual property. In Q1, private fixed investment as a share of GDP was in fact the highest it has been since the first quarter of 2008. Consistent with that evident trend shift, composite planned capital expenditure indices from Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs have been hitting record or near-record highs.

All of this is, ultimately, good news for American workers. The burden of corporate taxation is disproportionately born by labor, and it is born by labor through a long-run investment channel that results in fewer establishments, fewer factories and plants, less equipment, and at the end of the day less employment, fewer hours, lower productivity, and thus lower wages. So when we reduce the corporate tax burden, as we’ve just done, in the long-run we expect labor to enjoy a disproportionate share of that relief, through increased investment, a higher target capital stock, higher capital per worker, and thus higher productivity and wages. It’s therefore exciting to see in the 2018 data effects that are consistent on this point with top articles published in the Journal of Political Economy, American Economic Review, and American Economic Journal in just the past year.

An equally exciting challenge moving forward will be to identify the relative velocities of adjustment to a positive tax shock as we have just experienced. Consistent with Le Chatelier’s Principle, liquid capital markets may respond instantaneously by reallocating capital from mature, cash-rich firms to more dynamic, cash-constrained firms, whereas labor and physical capital market responses may be subject to longer time horizons.

But in any event, I would say that right now the fundamentals of the American economy are looking strong, with improved supply-side potential.

Thank you for your time, and for the generous invitation to speak with you all today.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/statement-cea-chairman-kevin-hassett-joint-committee-taxation-score/

Yesterday, the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) released its dynamic economic growth estimate of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as reported by the Senate Finance Committee.  While the JCT found that growth would increase by an average of 0.8% over the 10 years and reduce the cost of the bill by $408 billion, we are confident that it underestimates the growth effects of the proposed tax changes relative to what the latest academic research would predict. Ideally, the JCT would have spent recent years comparing the predictions of their models to empirical experience around the world.  Instead, it has provided us with a report that suggests the United States economy’s response to the Senate’s tax cut and tax reform bill would be dramatically different from that of other countries, perhaps because of an aggressive monetary policy by our Federal Reserve.  These conclusions are not supported by sufficient documentation or the recent academic literature to be considered authoritative.

The biggest challenge the Senate’s bill addresses is our noncompetitive corporate tax system, which is chasing corporate investment overseas.  Unfortunately, the JCT’s models understate the importance of overseas investment.  At least one of its models places no weight on international investment whatsoever, meaning that the analysis fails to account for the area the bill is most likely to affect.  In contrast to prior scores, the JCT presumes an aggressive Federal Reserve response, which it believes would dampen the bill’s growth effects.  If the JCT believes the Federal Reserve’s Response would deviate from its Forward Guidance, it should explain why and detail the path interest rates would have to follow in order to offset the bill’s stimulative effects.

The 11-page JCT releases little documentation on the models it uses and the basis for its assumptions, making its analysis impossible to replicate.  Accordingly, it is difficult to assess why its results deviate so dramatically from those expected from applying the peer-reviewed empirical literature.

Of course, it would be far better if its models—which are paid for by American taxpayers—were open source and transparent, allowing anyone could reproduce its analysis and assess the assumptions underlying its conclusions. As it is, however, the best we can do is guess.

Our own research, which resulted in two well-documented studies totaling more than 50 pages and resting upon 120 verifiable citations (more than half of which were to peer-reviewed academic journals), reached results that are quite different from those of the JCT.  In fact, we concluded that Gross Domestic Product would be 3 to 5 percent higher over time because of the tax bill.

We believe that our assessment more accurately reflects the likely growth effects of the Senate’s tax bill.  Among other things, unlike the JCT, our report drew on a vast international experience, since many other countries have successfully implemented policies similar to those in the tax bill.  Additionally, unlike the JCT, we have helped countless others replicate our results.  And notably, a recent letter from nine prominent economists—including three former chairs of the Council of Economic Advisers, one former director of the National Economic Council, and one former Secretary of the Treasury—estimates growth more in line with our estimates than with those of the JCT.

The JCT can play an important role in our fiscal policy debates.  Its latest report on the Senate’s tax bill, however, unfortunately misses the mark.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-cea-chairman-kevin-hassett-new-york-federal-reserve-bank/

It is a pleasure to be here in New York today with you all to speak on the topic of situating Administration policy in a broader economic context, both in the U.S. and abroad. And it is an honor to be here in the presence of so many distinguished economists and policymakers.

Looking out at the crowd, I see many friends who I’ve known for years. And so I cannot help but be reminded of the first projects I worked on as an economist exploring the effects of policy changes on the economy. Being here takes me back to a time that was really only a few years ago—a few years, if you take the logarithm of the raw data, per the econometric conventions of the economics profession.

The econometric issue in question was a focus of mine in graduate school and as a faculty member at Columbia. It is the issue of how to generate causal estimates of the effect of policy changes. The intuition for this issue—one that as CEA Chair I can now confirm to be true—is that policy changes are not random. Policymakers formulate policy in response to current and expected economic conditions. Looking at correlations between policy variables and the trajectory of economic conditions would lead only to spurious estimates of how policy influences economic conditions. A correlation does not a causal estimate make. Moreover, the direction of the bias can tend to be non-random. Policies intended to reverse or mitigate bad economic conditions would appear to cause deteriorations in economic conditions. Think of it like this: Visits to the doctor would appear, based on a perusal of raw data on treatments and outcomes, to cause a downturn in one’s health.

I can remember that my first regression in this space in graduate school revealed that investment tax credits cause steep reductions in investment. Puzzling through a wrong-signed result, it rapidly became clear that ITC’s in the U.S. were almost always on during recessions. A large academic literature found that the user cost elasticity of investment was essentially zero. But policymakers tended to enact investment tax credits in response to current or expected downturns in economic conditions. Was the endogeneity of policy driving the result?

Indeed it was, as Alan Auerbach and I showed in one of my first publications. Alan Auerbach and I exploited the fact that the user cost of capital varies cross-sectionally when there is a tax reduction, but that this variation is surely inadvertent. Looking at the 1986 tax reform, Alan and I used this exogenous variation to generate a robust test of the predictions of the neoclassical model. We found the elasticity was not zero, but had the correct sign and might even be north of unity. The endogeneity of policy, unaccounted for in the previous literature, explained the apparent ineffectiveness of policy.

Only a few log(years) later, our inference that tax policy influences behavior seems to have stood the test of time. The capacity of economic research to identify the causal effects of variation in policy has also grown. The literature’s arc towards larger rather than smaller estimates of the effects of policy variables is all around us, and in the top journals. Consider, for instance, the emergence of what is called “the narrative approach” to identifying the effects of tax policy on economic activity. These methodologies harness advances in computational power and natural language processing to identify the stated motivations of the policymakers that Alan and I worried about only a few log(years) ago. While no single paper can be dispositive, consider that the February 2018 online issue of the Quarterly Journal of Economics features an article that draws on this narrative approach to estimate an elasticity of personal income with respect to marginal tax rates. The paper’s headline estimates were north of 1 (1.2 to be exact)—very high by contemporary standards as well as those of the literature a few log(years) ago.

But the identification of causal effects from econometric estimates can require assumptions about the structure and functional form of relationships between a specified set of policy variables and measures of economic activity. That is in addition to the requirement, of course, that you have the relevant data at hand in the first place—a requirement typically only satisfied in hindsight. But we value knowing now whether the policy is working as intended. The observation of the variation in forecasts before and after a policy is changed offers one way of looking at the policy’s likely effects, just as Alan and I did in our first paper. And so, as we economists wait for evaluations of the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on economic growth to percolate through the peer-review process and into academic journals, looking at changes in growth forecasts before and after the TCJA offers one way to gauge its expected effect on growth.

The evolution of recent forecast revisions is quite revealing, and consistent with the tax act having a large effect on growth expectations. If one looks, for example, at the Blue Chip consensus forecast for four-quarter real GDP growth in 2018 and 2019, it was roughly flat throughout most of 2017, as media coverage of the legislative prospects for the Administration’s economic agenda was generally pessimistic. Consensus forecasts through November 2017 were therefore low—2.3 to 2.4 percent in 2018 and 2.1 percent in 2019.

Since November, however, we’ve seen steady upward revisions in private forecasts. As of this month, the Blue Chip consensus forecast is now for 2018 growth of 2.8 percent, and 2019 growth of 2.3 percent, upward revisions of 0.5 and 0.2 percentage point since the tax act was passed. Official forecasts revisions suggest an even bigger bump. In its last forecast before the tax bill was passed, the Congressional Budget Office projected growth of 2.0 and 1.5 percent in 2018 and 2019. That has now been revised up substantially—to 3.3 and 2.4 percent, respectively. In other words, the CBO now projects growth to be more than a percentage point higher, on average, over the next two years than they did a year ago. In addition, over the same timeframe, the CBO revised up its forecast of projected corporate income tax receipts over the 2018-2027 period by $476 billion. Which exceeds the CBO’s own $409 billion static score of the TCJA. Ex ante, knowing only that the TCJA passed, based on my paper on corporate tax rates and the Laffer curve with Alex Brill, one could have predicted such a revenue increase.

Meanwhile, last summer, before the tax debate got seriously underway, the Federal Open Market Committee median forecast was for growth of just 2.1 and 1.9 percent in 2018 and 2019. That has since been revised up by 0.6 and 0.5 percentage point, respectively, with most of the upward revision occurring in December, as the tax bill made it over the legislative finish line.

Last week, the International Monetary Fund released its April 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO). Global growth for 2018 was revised up 0.2 percentage point from its October WEO release to 3.9 percent year-over-year. The IMF attributes roughly half of the global growth revision to changes in U.S. fiscal policy. When honing in on the United States, the IMF’s April 2018 update to its October 2017 World Economic Outlook revised up its growth forecast by 0.6 percentage point from October to 2.9 percent year-over-year. According to the IMF, one reason for this upward revision is the macroeconomic effects stemming from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed in December.

The IMF’s April upwards revision to its October global growth forecast in the wake of the passage of the TCJA follows the OECD’s March upwards revision to its November global growth forecast. For the U.S., its 2018 outlook increased by 0.4 percentage point to 2.9 percent and its 2019 outlook increased by 0.7 percentage point to 2.8 percent. And the OECD’s March Economic Outlook cited as one of the “key factors behind the upward revision to global growth prospects in 2018 and 2019” the “tax reductions...announced in the last three months.”

I note in passing that these revisions are almost exactly what our analysis from last year implied they would be once the bill passes.

As for global growth, CEA’s own in-house analysis finds that exogenous tax changes in the world’s largest economy have large effects on global growth, suggesting the recent rise in growth expectations around the world is more the result of fiscal developments in the United States than the other way around. Applying the Romer & Romer exogenous tax shock series to a global structural vector autoregressive model indicates that a 1 percent cut in U.S. taxes as a fraction of GDP raises growth in the European Union by 0.8 percent in the year immediately following, with a peak impact of 1.2 percent after 2 years. We can reject the null hypothesis of no effect with 95 percent confidence. The estimated effect on the rest of the world is even bigger, with a peak impact after 2 years of 2.1 percent, and we can actually reject the null with 95 percent in both years 1 and 2.

While the mechanisms relating exogenous U.S. tax changes to global growth remain an open and, I believe, fascinating question for our ongoing work, the magnitude of the effect strongly suggests they extend far beyond the arithmetic relationship implied by the U.S. share of global GDP. Our own intuition is that other countries often learn from U.S. success, and adopt similar policies. Policy is endogenous, and successful policies are copied.

These forecasts are revised with an eye toward the literature that now rejects a user cost elasticity of zero. But don’t just believe the forecasts. You can already see the effects emerging in the data. Real private nonresidential fixed investment increased 6.3 percent during the fourth quarter of 2017, according to data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Equipment investment rose 8.9 percent, thanks largely to the tax law’s allowance for full expensing of equipment investment retroactively to September 2017. In March 2018, the Morgan Stanley Composite Capital Expenditure Plans Index reached its highest level since it began tracking in 2006. The three-month moving average is up 34 percent since November 2017, the last month before the bill became law. Goldman Sachs’ capex tracker is similarly at a cycle high.

When the literature settles, I am sure that we will discover many patterns in the data that we did not expect. But if this investment boom continues as expected, I think you will all agree, it will mark an important and historic moment of success for economics as a science that guides policy.

