https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/reflecting-year-recovery-puerto-rico/

One year ago, a devastating Category 4 hurricane made landfall just south of the Yabucoa Harbor in Puerto Rico. Hurricane Maria was a storm of historic strength that required – and received – a coordinated government response of historic proportions that continues to this day.

As the powerful winds of Hurricane Maria bore down on Puerto Rico, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employees from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and other DHS components were already on the island – as well as the nearby U.S. Virgin Islands – ready to respond. In the days, weeks, and months following Hurricane Maria, FEMA staff, along with other federal partners, remained on the island in full force to work hand-in-hand with the community to recover.

Their mission initially focused on disaster response – far and away the largest in FEMA’s history – helping survivors of the storm receive immediate food, water, and shelter. FEMA delivered over 74 million liters of bottled drinking water, 17 million gallons of water, 63 million meals, and 1,100 power generators to Puerto Rico in the immediate aftermath of the storm.

Although the federal aid pouring onto the island was overwhelming, Maria still caused the deaths of many American citizens on Puerto Rico and displaced many more. My heart continues to go out to the families of victims, to the survivors, and to their families. We will continue to do all we can to ease their burdens.

In fact, FEMA remains on the island to this day, ensuring that the people of Puerto Rico are able to emerge from the crisis more resilient than ever. The agency is investing in Puerto Rico’s future, including through billions of dollars in aid and by employing 1,900 local hires to perform sustained recovery efforts. So far, more than $4.6 billion has been provided to Puerto Rico for public assistance projects which include emergency repairs to the island’s infrastructure, such as for roads, bridges, and the energy grid, and individual assistance.

FEMA’s response to Maria in Puerto Rico was not only unprecedented in scope, it was also undertaken amidst multiple catastrophic disasters across our nation—Hurricane Harvey in Texas; Hurricane Irma and Maria in the U.S. Virgin Islands, Florida, and Puerto Rico; and the extraordinary wildfires in California.

The 2017 disaster season was record-breaking and catastrophic. To date, more than $20 billion in assistance has been made available to individuals to support recovery following Harvey, Irma, Maria and the wildfires alone. For a broader perspective, in the last year, FEMA has responded to 242 disaster, emergency, and fire declarations and provided billions of dollars more in assistance to Americans and communities across 43 states, tribes, and territories. In total, more than 14,000 civilian employees, including over 4,000 Surge Capacity Force from 32 federal agencies deployed to disaster-stricken areas. A truly monumental year of effort.

I am incredibly proud of the work that we have done and the efforts that continue to this day. Disaster response is most effective when it is state managed, locally executed, and federally supported. In our supporting role, DHS and FEMA remain committed to helping people before, during, and after disasters strike. And today we are focused on helping Puerto Rico, as well as the U.S. Virgin Islands, further strengthen their emergency response capabilities, capacity, and infrastructure resilience to be prepared for future catastrophes.

We all play important roles in disaster resilience. This month is National Preparedness Month, and I urge Americans to be proactive in preparing themselves and their families before disaster strikes. It’s critical that we work together to create a culture of preparedness to make our communities resilient.

Last year’s disasters were historic, but our response has been historic, too. Amidst these crises, Americans displayed extraordinary resolve, resilience, and compassion. And today we are drawing on the lessons we learned last year to make sure we respond more effectively this hurricane season, including our current response to Hurricane Florence, and beyond.

FEMA and its federal partners were in Puerto Rico before Hurricane Maria made landfall, supported response efforts, and will stay there for years to come, supporting the government’s recovery efforts and helping Puerto Rican communities. I thank them for their dedication and service to our country and for lending a helping hand to those in need.

https://www.dhs.gov/news/2018/09/05/secretary-nielsen-remarks-rethinking-homeland-security-age-disruption

Today though what I want to do is describe five major challenges to our threat landscape. And I am looking to focus on man made threats. Much has been said, much should be said about all of the natural disasters that we will continue to face and 2017 was certainly an historic year. But today I am going to focus on the man made threats.

I would like to explain how we are building resilience into everything we do, preparing our frontline defenders to protect America in a new age, and responding to all of these evolving threats.

Next week as Frank mentioned will mark an important anniversary: it has been 17 years since the 9/11 attacks. It is truly an yearly anniversary where we have the opportunity to take stock be very thankful for where we’ve come but also to look at where we need to go and how the landscape is changing.

We are many years from that pivotal moment that gave us a permanent mission at DHS, but we will not let time nor space dull our memories or weaken our resolve. Nor can we afford to, especially with new storm clouds forming on the horizon and that is what I will talk about today.

In the months prior to 9/11, then-CIA Director George Tenet said that the system was “blinking red.” We heard enough chatter to know that something was coming, danger was coming. But we didn’t quite yet have the pieces and weren’t able to connect the dots to know when it would occur or exactly what form it would take.

My colleague Dan Coats, the Director of National Intelligence, recently also said the system is “blinking red” once again. His concern in those comments is our nation’s digital infrastructure.

He’s right. And we will talk about that today our digital lives are in danger like never before.

But it’s more than that. We are witnessing historic changes across the entire threat landscape globally. We can see the winds blowing and hear that thunder coming closer and we must prepare.

The balance of power that has characterized the international system for decades has been corroding. America’s unipolar moment is clearly at risk. Power vacuums are springing up across the globe and are quickly filled by hostile states, terrorists, and transnational criminals.

They all share one common goal however, they want to disrupt our way of life—they are inciting chaos, instability, and violence.

And at the same time, the pace of innovation, our hyperconnectivity, and our digital dependence have opened cracks in our defenses, creating new opportunities and new vectors through which the nefarious actors can strike us. Truly, when you think about it all together so you’ve got new threat actors, you’ve got a whole changing environment, you’ve got this pace of innovation it is truly is a volatile combination. The result is a world where threats are more numerous, more widely distributed, highly networked, increasingly adaptive, and incredibly difficult to root out.

Our policy at DHS in the face of these growing dangers will not be “strategic patience.” Instead, we are reasserting U.S. leadership. And we are building the toughest homeland security enterprise America has ever seen.

Our approach begins and ends with one word: Resilience.

We will never forget that in our darkest hour on 9/11, we saw real heroism…we saw renewed hope…and we saw relentless resilience.

It was a time when our incredulity was replaced by defiance, and our rallying cry was marked by unified determination: “United We Stand” was written in sidewalk chalk, on bumper stickers, and in the hearts of Americans everywhere who pledged not to be intimidated by evil.

Born from that commitment and that relentless resilience was the Department of Homeland Security. This year we marked our 15th anniversary, and we have come a long way.

But years later, we are still not prepared for everything. We can’t be. What we can do is instill a “culture of resilience” into our everyday lives. That culture is not just about bouncing back; it’s about bouncing forward, when innovating while we are under attack, and coming back stronger to stare down the next challenge more decisively than before.

I am pleased to announce that this month we will release a new DHS strategic plan, a “Resilience Agenda” that will guide our actions in defense of the American people.

Our Resilience Agenda is about…

Leaning in against today’s threats while zooming out to prepare for those on the horizon;
About being adaptive to keep pace with our adversaries;
Identifying and confronting systemic risk;
Preparing at the citizen level;
Building redundancy and resiliency into literally everything we do;
And raising the baseline of our security across the board—and indeed across the world.
Perhaps more important than anything, though, are the partnerships we build and maintain at the Department of Homeland Security. In today’s world, dangerous actors are crowd-sourcing their chaos their threats, and terror, and we MUST crowd-source our response. But that’s only possible through deep public, private, and international cooperation.

Partnerships used to be a “nice to have.” But now they are the lifeline of America’s survival.

So what has changed since 9/11? The world is very different than it was on 9/11 and post 9/11. We saw that threat continue to morph until it is what it is today. In Congressional testimony, Frank in 2006 referred to “bad weather, bad bugs, and bad guys.” At DHS, we still confront all three.

But the bugs have expanded into the digital realm, and the bad guys are not only terrorists but nation states and transnational criminal organizations.

Today I will talk about five major shifts in our threat landscape and how we are bringing our Resilience Agenda to bear against them.

First, and lets set the stage to this—we must recognize that the “home game” and “away game” are no longer distinct. They are in fact one and the same.

After 9/11, our strategy was to take the fight to enemies “over there” so that we didn’t have to fight them “over here.” Unfortunately, that’s no longer the world in which we live.

Our enemies don’t respect our borders, and they aren’t constrained by geography. Today’s threats exist in a truly borderless world. So that’s how we need to operate.

Today, DHS actions abroad are just as important as our security actions here at home.

We have thousands of personnel forward-deployed throughout the world who are taking an end-to-end approach to dismantling these threat networks.

This phenomenon—the merging of the home and away game—magnifies all of the others that I will talk about today.

So secondly, terrorism and transnational crime have spread across the globe at fiber-optic speeds.

After 9/11, we faced a centrally-directed terror threat.

But today that threat is everywhere. The U.S. Government has terrorism investigations today in all fifty of our states. Self-made operatives are popping up across the globe. DHS stops ten known or suspected terrorists a day from traveling to the United States, and those are just the ones that we know about. And even when we destroy jihadist sanctuaries abroad—and we have decimated their so-called caliphate—they are able to hide in virtual safe havens online.

Groups such as ISIS and al Qaeda now direct, finance, and inspire attacks—all from their smartphones. This allows them to act anywhere anytime in a network community.

They are quite literally turning Twitter followers into terrorist foot soldiers. And in so doing, they are promoting do-it-yourself terror by urging followers to adopt a “Bring Your Own Weapon” policy and to conduct violent acts wherever and whenever is convenient.

I can assure you that DHS is not sitting by on the sidelines while this occurs.

In fact, under this Administration we have made the most sweeping counterterrorism enhancements of the Department since its creation after those tragic events on 9/11.

We have put in place historic measures to keep terrorists from infiltrating the United States, to stop them from radicalizing and recruiting in our communities, and to prevent them from carrying out their sought after attacks.

For instance, last year, we announced the first-ever “global information-sharing baseline”—a requirement that every nation in the world share information with us about terrorists and take action to make it harder for them to travel undetected.

The handful of countries who failed to comply now face travel restrictions or other sanctions. And I can say with confidence that this baseline has made America safer.

This month, I will make additional recommendations to the President on ways we can press foreign governments to step up their sharing and efforts to prevent terrorist travel.

We have also implemented the toughest screening and vetting measures we have ever had to help us weed out violent extremists.

And we are conducting deeper background checks on foreign travelers, screening applicants against more intelligence information, using biometrics to confirm identities, and conducting more thorough departure and arrival screenings.

And before the year ends, we will open a groundbreaking National Vetting Center to bring it all together. I very much look forward to telling you all about that as that comes online.

Despite their success with do-it-yourself terror, groups such as ISIS and al Qaeda are still focused on executing major attacks, especially against the aviation sector.

In just this past year, we’ve seen some of the most disturbing aviation plotting we have ever tracked.

But we’ve met that threat by putting in place the most significant upgrades to aviation security in a decade.

In response to threat intelligence, we have required every airport in the world with flights to the United States to implement new “seen and unseen” measures to detect concealed explosives, guard against chemical weapons, identify insider threats, and identify suspicious behaviors.

International flights are now more secure than they have ever been.

But there is not nearly enough time to fill you in on all of the other counterterrorism steps that we have taken, but I do want to mention that they include engagement with the tech sector to make it much more difficult for terrorists to weaponize the web with their propaganda...new efforts to protect soft targets nationwide against attack...an overhaul of all of our “terrorism prevention” programs and a focus on helping our communities spot signs of terror sooner…and more.

Very soon the White House will be releasing a bold new counterterrorism strategy that will put our enemies on further notice and lay out a path to victory against them.

And criminals the last point on this one, criminals are exploiting the same environment as the terrorists in order to build cartel superpowers with sprawling networks.

Indeed, a decade ago, transnational criminal organizations, or TCOs, were much like the terrorists of the 9/11 era: they were confined to certain geographic areas with centralized command-and-control and a much more limited focus.

But today they are spreading rapidly, outsourcing their work, diversifying their activities, and cooperating with ever-wider cabals of identity forgers, smugglers, traffickers, drug-runners, fixers, and killers and the list goes on. They are not only imbedding their enterprises further in the physical world, they are also selling their illicit wares in the virtual world.

So today I am pleased to let you know that DHS—along with our interagency partners—is launching a new effort to crush TCOs.

In the coming months, we will help stand up a pilot “fusion cell” that will bring multiple agencies together under one roof to map out a truly global and comprehensive approach to defeating these threats and dismantling these networks for good.

TCOs should be worried. The President continues to set sights on their downfall, and we are stepping up to take action…regardless of where or how they hide or operate.

Third and this is a big one I am going to spend a little bit of time here.

Third, we are witnessing the re-rise of the hostile nation state.

DHS has spent many years since 9/11 focused—rightfully—on non-state threats.

But our nation-state rivals are increasingly asserting themselves in ways that endanger our homeland.

In fact, threats to the U.S. from foreign adversaries are at the highest levels since the Cold War.

Countries such as China, Iran, North Korea, and Russia are willing to use all elements of their national power—financial, trade, cyber, espionage, information operations, and more—to undermine us and to advance their own interests.

Even in peacetime, adversary nation states are now taking the fight directly to citizens— attacking their devices, compromising essential functions as we saw in the Ukraine, attacking them as we saw in the recent UK poisonings, or seeking to destabilize the heart of the democracy that we depend on through malicious influence campaigns. And they are encouraging us to turn on each other—so we tear each other apart from the inside out. We really have never quite seen anything like this particularly in peacetime.

It is not a fair fight. Neither private companies nor citizens are equipped to wage a battle against such a Goliath. So we must partner together.

Top of mind for most Americans is the egregious Russian interference in our 2016 elections.

At Vladimir Putin’s direction, Moscow launched a brazen, multi-faceted influence campaign to undermine public faith in our democratic process and to distort our presidential election.

Although NO actual ballots were altered by this campaign, make no mistake: this was a direct attack on our democracy.

We should not…cannot…and will not tolerate this—or let it happen again.

Election security wasn’t a mission we envisioned in the Department when it was created. But it’s now one of my highest and continuous priorities. And in the past two years, we have worked hand-in-hand with state and local officials to make our election infrastructure more secure than ever.

We are sharing intelligence nationwide with election officials. We are forward-deploying cyber experts to help states scan and secure their systems. And by the midterm elections this year, more than 90 percent of registered voters will live in an area where our network security sensors are deployed on their election infrastructure.

This is unprecedented in terms of forward movement. But we won’t stop here. On Election Day, our folks will be out in full force and hosting a virtual, nationwide “situation room” to monitor activity.

So to move the ball forward even more today, I am calling on every state in the Union to ensure that by the 2020 election, they have redundant, auditable election systems. The best way to do that is with a physical paper trail and effective audits so that Americans everywhere can be confident that—no matter what—their vote is counted and it is counted correctly.

DHS is also undertaking new efforts—in partnership with the FBI, intel community, and others—to counter foreign influence through close industry engagement and foreign partnerships.

In fact last week, I secured a commitment from our “Five Eyes” partners—Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom—to collaborate more closely to block meddling in all of our democracies.

More broadly, I have directed a shift from a “counterterrorism” posture at DHS to a much broader and wider “counter-threats” posture to make sure that we are doing everything possible to guard against nation-state interference.

We are overhauling our crisis response teams and advisory boards.

We are reorganizing our intelligence units into new “mission centers”—very similar to what the CIA has done—to help guard against foreign threats.

And we are taking steps to prevent adversaries from infiltrating United States companies and critical industries.

Fourth and very related to this re-rise of the nation state, is that cyber-attacks now exceed the risk of physical attacks.

So let me say that again cyber-attacks in terms of their breadth and scope of possible consequences now exceed the risk of physical attacks. Don’t get me wrong: terrorists, criminals, and foreign adversaries continue to threaten the physical security of our people and they are likely to do so for the foreseeable future. But cyberspace is now the most active battlefield, and the attack surface extends into every single American home.

Some estimate that by 2021, a cybercrime damage is estimated to hit $6 trillion annually. To put that in perspective, that’s almost 10 percent of the world economy.

But it is not just cybercrime we are worried about – although we do combat that too at DHS. In a matter of keystrokes, an adversary can wipe out bank accounts, knock out critical service, take down vital networks and lock down or alter data—calling into question its very availability and integrity.

Such attacks can spread well beyond their intended targets and have unforeseeable, cascading consequences.

This is the viral spread of volatile malware. Indeed we have moved past the “epidemic” stage and are now at a “pandemic” stage—a worldwide outbreak of cyber attacks and cyber vulnerabilities.

We saw it last year when both Russia and North Korea unleashed destructive codes that spread across the world, causing untold billions in damage.

The reasons countries launch this attack though is simple: they can—and they think they can get away with it. Too often they have.

Now more than 30 nation-states have cyber-attack capabilities, and sophisticated digital toolkits are spreading like wildfire.

DHS was founded fifteen years ago to prevent another 9/11. I believe an attack of that magnitude is much more likely to reach us online than on an airplane.

As we speak, the bad guys are in our networks checking for open windows or doors. And everyone and everything is a target: individuals …industries …infrastructure …institutions …and our international interests.

In response, earlier this year, we released a new cyber strategy that outlines how we are changing the way we do business. Above all, it highlights how we will identify and confront systemic risk – moving away from a focus on the protection of specific assets or systems.

You see, the more interconnected we are, the more your risk becomes my risk, my risk becomes your risk. Anyone or anything to which you are connected can be the weakest link that makes you and me susceptible to attack.

In July, we hosted the first-ever National Cybersecurity Summit, where we brought together top CEOs and cyber minds to discuss these very issues.

We agreed that we can’t afford to defend ourselves in silos. If we prepare individually in this environment, we will fail collectively. We must move from endemic vulnerabilities to system-wide endemic resilience.

To support this strategy, I also announced the launch of the DHS National Risk Management Center, which will serve as a central hub for government and private sector partners to share as an information hub and together better secure the digital ecosystem.

We will identify single points of failure, concentrated dependencies, and those cross-cutting underlying functions that make us vulnerable.

We are also driving forward ambitious supply chain security efforts to identify upstream weaknesses before they have downstream consequences.

And we are working with our partners throughout the Administration to hold cyber attackers accountable.

We will no longer naively assume that a nation state with cyber capabilities chooses not to use them. We will no longer tolerate the theft of our data. We will no longer stand idly by as our networks are penetrated, exploited, or held hostage.

Instead, we will respond. And we will respond decisively.

The United States has a full spectrum of options—some seen, others unseen—and we are already using them to call out our cyber adversaries, to punish them, and to deter future digital hostility.

Our adversaries have been warned: the days of cyber surrender are over. And this Administration is replacing complacency with consequences…replacing nations’ deniability with accountability.

But there is a roadblock preventing us from getting where we need to be. DHS wasn’t built for a digital pandemic. Our cybersecurity arm—the National Protection and Programs Directorate—needs to be authorized in law and transformed into a full-fledged operational agency.

Today, I ask Congress again to pass legislation immediately, and absolutely before the year ends.

Fifth and finally, emerging threats are outpacing our defenses.

Simply put they’re faster they’re better they are innovating more quickly this IS what keeps me up at night. Drones are a prime example.

Ten years ago, a drone was something the military used overseas. A few years ago, it was the hot toy on wish lists. But today, it’s a major national security concern in our homeland.

Terrorists are using drones on the battlefield to surveil and to destroy. Drug smugglers are using them to monitor border patrol officers so they can slip into America undetected. And criminals are using them to spy on sensitive facilities. Drones can also be used to disrupt communications or to steal data via nearby WiFi.

Imagine a drone dropping a small bomb on a busy street. Or in a football stadium. Or releasing chemicals into a crowd at an outdoor concert.

This isn’t sci-fi anymore. The threat is real and it is here today.

I will continue to sound this alarm because we desperately need Congress to act. Outdated laws prevent us from setting up the sophisticated defenses we need to protect big events, federal facilities, and other potential targets from an airborne menace. DHS does not have the clear legal authority to identify, track, or take down dangerous drones. We can’t even test our defensive measures in civilian environments.

So once again, I also call here on Congress to get moving and to pass bipartisan legislation supported by the Senate and House Homeland Security Committees. We need these authorities now—before it’s too late.

I also want to quickly mention weapons of mass destruction. We are seeing terrorists and nation-states more willing than ever to use chemical and biological weapons to conduct attacks.

Just in the past year, Russia poisoned civilians in the UK using a deadly nerve agent, the brutal Syrian regime used chlorine and sarin gas to attack their own people, ISIS deployed chemical weapons on the battlefield, and authorities disrupted a terror plot to use toxic gases on an international passenger flight.

DHS is taking these threats very seriously. Last December, I formed the DHS Office of Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, or CWMD. It was the largest reorganization in years, and it has already helped us better protect the American people.

But although we have broad authorities to guard against radiological and nuclear dangers, we do not have everything we need to do the same against chemical and biological threats.

However, thanks to the leadership of the House Homeland Security Committee, there is a bill to strengthen our CWMD office by empowering it with the authorities it needs.

I’m hoping we can get this done soon.

There is a theme here—and it’s that we really need Congress to act to give DHS the authorities to keep up with these emerging threats as we spot them before they fully manifest in our homeland.

So today, I want to close today with a bit more about resilience.

I am a great admirer of Teddy Roosevelt’s “man in the arena” speech. My folks know it. I’ve cited it many times this summer and in the spring in meetings and town halls throughout the country. And I suspect many of you know it as well.

But Roosevelt’s timeless words bear repeating nonetheless. And as he said:

“It is not the critic who counts. Not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes up short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who actually strives to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows—in the end—the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst—if he fails—at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.”

We live in turbulent times. Some days feels as if there are more “critics” than “doers,” Those who post their rage online and troll their fellow citizens.

But the present discord in our discourse does not and will not define us.

The 240,000 men and women of the Department of Homeland Security have found an antidote to this acrimony, and it’s called mission.

Every day, they roll up their sleeves and go to work to build a better and safer America. They enforce the laws passed by Congress. They believe in accountability. And they do not let unfair criticism defeat them.

They are in the arena. They are relentlessly resilient. And I urge you not only to learn from them, but to support them.

Whether it is a FEMA employee responding to fires and floods …or an ICE agent taking a murderer off the streets…or a Coast Guard lieutenant seizing drugs off our shores…or a CBP officer stopping a terrorist trying to enter the country…or a TSA agent working to keep explosives off of airplanes…or a USCIS officer helping a family of refugees find a safer life in our country…or a Secret Service agent taking down a fraud scheme...or a cyber analyst sharing threat indicators to stop a digital heist …or the many many, many other employees who work to protect our homeland…they all deserve our respect and gratitude. As do their families—for when one serves as DHS, their family serves too.

I can tell you firsthand these patriots have thwarted real plots, real threats, and real danger in just the nine months I’ve been on the job.

They have your backs. So we should have theirs. Although I am often asked what keeps me up at night I am rarely asked what gets me up in the morning. I will tell you that what gets me up in the morning is not only the solemn honor and duty to protect the homeland but it is to support the men and women of the Department of Homeland Security. I am proud of their resilience, perseverance, and service to our great nation.

DHS is a Department of heroes. And as long as I am Secretary, I will do everything I can to support them so that, with honor and integrity, they can continue to safeguard the American people, our homeland, and our values. And in closing to thank each of those who day to day work so hard to protect and serve our country.

Thank you for everything that you do.

https://www.dhs.gov/news/2018/07/31/secretary-kirstjen-m-nielsen-s-national-cybersecurity-summit-keynote-speech

We have a lot of serious threats to discuss today. Americans are worried about what our digital enemies might do…whether it is taking down the power grid…holding healthcare systems hostage…or the nightmare scenario: blocking access to the web the day a new TV show drops on Netflix. I often hear about this from folks that that keeps them up at night.

But I’d like to thank Secretary Perry, Director Wray, and General Nakasone, who will join me on stage in just a little bit, for bringing their expertise and leadership to this discussion as well. What you will see before you today is a true effort from the United States government, to work with the private sector, and academia to combat these threats.

I’d also like to Director Alles of the United States Secret Service who is here bringing his level of expertise, of course Under Secretary Krebs, and those of you in the audience, and who are watching from home so-to-speak, to the men and women from DHS, for everything you do to protect our country, thank you. And whether you represent government, industry, or academia, we are glad to have you on our team, and I want to thank you for your continued collaboration and for the time you’re giving us today, and your future efforts to work with us as we look at these threats.

This afternoon, we will also have the pleasure of hearing from Vice President Pence. He will lay out how this Administration is strengthening cybersecurity across the board—and why we will be relentless against our cyber adversaries.

This event is the first of its kind. Today we are coming together—government leaders, CEOs, academics, and cyber experts—to send a message to these online threat actors: Game. Over. Our team is formed, our team is ready and we are ready to combat you wherever you might manifest your threat.

We are not waiting for the next intrusion before we act. We are taking a clear-eyed look at the threat and taking action—and notably, as Under Secretary Krebs mentioned—collective action to combat them.

And, that’s truly the only way we’ll win this struggle.

Today is a watershed moment, a chance for us to cement partnerships in order to protect our networks and repel digital invaders together.

This morning I’m going to give you a stark overview of the threat landscape. I won’t sugar-coat it.

But I will also tell you how DHS and this Administration are fighting back.

And I’d like announce bold new efforts—starting today—that will make the digital infrastructure of our country more resilient.

So let me give you the bottom line up front: we are facing an urgent, evolving crisis in cyberspace. Our adversaries’ capabilities online are outpacing our stove-piped defenses.

In fact, I believe that cyber threats collectively now exceed the danger of physical attacks against us. This is a major sea change for my Department and for our country’s security.

Indeed, most Americans go about their daily lives without fear of personal injury or harm from our adversaries. But our digital lives are now in danger every single day.

And these virtual threats can have very real-world consequences. When the bad guys can remotely turn off the lights, steal money from your bank account, and shut down emergency services, the impacts go far beyond our smartphone screens.

But don’t get me wrong. Terrorists and criminals still pose a serious threat to our lives, we take this mission at DHS very seriously, and they are plotting against Americans daily; however, the “attack surface” in cyberspace is now broader and under more frequent assault.

This has forced us to rethink homeland security.

DHS was founded fifteen years ago to prevent another 9/11, but today I believe the next major attack is more likely to reach us online than on an airplane.

DNI Intelligence Dan Coats recently said that “the warning lights are blinking red” in cyberspace. I agree. Intruders are in our systems, they are seeking to compromise more of them every day, and they represent a very active threat to our digital security as a nation.

Everyone and everything is a target: individuals …industries …infrastructure …institutions …and our international interests. And the scope of the problem keeps getting wider.

The cyber-threat landscape is different today because cyberspace is not only a target. Cyber can also be used as a weapon, an attack vector, or a means for which nefarious activity can be conducted.

Today, our innovations can be stolen and used to diminish our prosperity…our infrastructure can be hijacked and used to hold us hostage…and our institutions can be compromised and used to undermine our democratic process.

Our smartphones and computers can be turned into bad-guy force multipliers without us even realizing it. Your compromised computer can become part of the bot army. Or your CPU power can be commandeered to steal Bitcoin to finance a rogue regime.

I wish I could tell you that we’ve rounded a corner. But last year was the worst-ever in terms of cyberattack volume. The headlines seemed never-ending, and not to be the Debby Downer but I think continue to see them this year.

Nearly half of all Americans had sensitive personal information exposed online in 2017. But that wasn’t the total for 2017. That resulted from a single breach, when cybercriminals hacked a major credit bureau.

We witnessed North Korea’s WannaCry ransomware spread to more than 150 countries, which held healthcare systems hostage and brought factories to a halt.

And we saw Russia probing our energy grid, compromising thousands of routers around the world, and unleashing NotPetya malware, which wreaked havoc and ended up being one of the costliest cyber incidents in history.

These incidents, though, are only the beginning. Rogue regimes and hostile groups are probing critical systems worldwide every moment as we speak. And without aggressive action to secure our networks, it is only a matter of time before we get hit hard in the homeland.

It’s not just risks to our prosperity, privacy, and infrastructure we have to worry about.

Our democracy itself is in the crosshairs. Let me take just a moment to touch on these because I think it’s important to do so.

Two years ago, as we all know, a foreign power launched a brazen, multi-faceted influence campaign to undermine public faith in our democratic process and to distort our presidential election.

That campaign was multifaceted and involved cyber espionage, leaks of stolen data, cyber intrusions into voter registration systems, online propaganda, and more.

Let me be clear: Our intelligence community had it right. It was the Russians. We know that, they know that. It was directed from the highest levels. And we cannot and will not allow it to happen again.

Although NO actual votes were changed in 2016, let me be clear in this, ANY attempt to interfere in our elections is a direct attack on our democracy, it is unacceptable, and it will not be tolerated.

Mark my words: America will not tolerate this meddling.

So it’s clear that we are in a tough fight right now. The cybersecurity headwinds are against us. I could talk about this all day but let me give you a few examples.

First, increased connectivity has led to increased systemic risk.

There’s no getting around it. The wider and deeper the web gets, the more vulnerable we become.

The “internet of things”—which is really now the “internet of everything”—has compounded the problem by giving cyber criminals a direct route onto our doorsteps and into our homes.

Wherever and whenever you are connected to the internet, you are unlocking doors and windows you may not even be aware of to let the bad guys in.

What’s more, our growing digital dependence means that vulnerabilities can have widespread, unpredictable, and cascading consequences when they are exploited.

Whether it’s common tools such as GPS or payment systems, everything is closely intertwined.

An attack on a single tech company, for instance, can rapidly spiral into a crisis affecting the financial sector, the energy grid, water systems, or the healthcare industry.

Secondly, our cyber rivals are getting more sophisticated.

Several years ago, a cyber-intrusion by a foreign adversary might be similar to a sloppy home break-in. The window would be broken, furniture would be overturned, and missing jewelry would be a dead giveaway that someone had been in your house— that you had been hit.

But they are getting savvier. Now when you get home, the door is still locked, and your house appears exactly as you left it. But no, in reality, the intruder has been inside for hours, perhaps days and weeks, and will remain in hiding, waiting for the right moment to strike.

That’s what we’re up against.

So, to prevent cyber intrusions today, we don’t just need an alarm system. Or a neighborhood watch. Or security cameras. Or armed guards constantly roaming the hallways. We need it all.

Third, similar to the pre-9/11 days, and this is where we’ll focus today, we still have trouble “connecting the dots.”

Between all of us—government, the private sector, and individuals—we do have the data to disrupt and prevent cyberattacks.

But we aren’t sharing fast enough or collaborating deeply enough to make it happen.

This is partly because we are operating in a legal and operational paradigm designed for a different era—long before brand-name breaches could threaten to cripple entire industries.

We still have the walls up and we still have stovepipes, and we still have sidewalks.

So what are we doing about it?

First and foremost, let me say this: we are replacing complacency with consequences. To deter bad behavior, you have to punish it. And we cannot wait for “the big one” to do just that.

Our adversaries have the capability to destroy. So we cannot afford to bide time as they prep the battlefield and identify our hidden digital evacuation routes or try to outmaneuver us. We must act now.

That starts with calling out the offenders. Whether it is the North Koreans or the Russians, we are identifying countries that have compromised our systems or have unleashed destructive malware.

And we are imposing costs—whole of government costs, diplomatically, financially, legally, and through other means.

The United States possesses a wide range of response options—some of them seen, and some unseen—and we will no longer hesitate to use them to hold foreign adversaries accountable and to deter cyber hostility.

Let me also again take this opportunity today to issue a warning, as I have in other speeches, to any foreign power that would consider meddling in our networks or in the affairs of our democracy: The United States will no longer tolerate your interference. You will be exposed. And, you will pay a high price.

Second, we are changing our posture and setting course to confront systemic risk head on.

Traditionally, DHS, and our sector specific agencies, has focused primarily on protecting individual “assets,” companies, individual systems or “sectors.” But now we are looking more across government, across sectors, across government-private, at those nationally critical “functions.” What are they? These are the lifeblood of our economy, of our national security, and of our day-to-day lives.

We must identify single points of failure, concentrated dependencies and interdependencies that can create those ripple effects across sectors.

To do this, we are launching voluntary supply-chain risk management programs. Under Secretary Krebs will talk about that later. And we are partnering with companies to hunt down unseen security weaknesses and to limit our attack surface.

I urge you to join us and lend your expertise to these efforts.

Third, we are reorganizing ourselves for a new fight.

I am working with Congress to pass legislation to establish the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency within DHS.

This would recast what is now NPPD, or the National Protection and Programs Directorate—our cybersecurity arm—into an ambitious operational agency capable of better confronting digital threats.

But we all know that waiting for Congress to act is like waiting for a new Game of Thrones book to come out. You really, really want it—but you don’t hold your breath.

So in the meantime we are taking other steps—including one that I will announce today—to make sure we keep up and stay ahead of our online adversaries.

This also includes dramatically ramping up efforts to protect our election systems, including through a new Elections Task Force and deploying a vast array of services, programs, and partnerships nationwide to help our partners secure our election infrastructure.

Finally, we are embracing a “collective defense” posture.

As I’ve said many times before, in a hyper-connected world, and as Chris mentioned in his introduction, your risk is now my risk and my risk is your risk. Each of us is on the frontlines of the digital battlefield, so we must work together to protect ourselves.

Any of us could be the weak link that not only allows adversaries to infect our systems but allows them to use our systems to spread further into others.

The adversary’s approach is like a flood. It will find every crack, crevice, and seam. Even if I place sandbags around my house to prepare for the flood, if my neighbors don’t do it too, my house will be underwater.

Collective defense calls for all of us to use sandbags, if you will—to optimally configure our systems, to employ patch management, to share, receive, and act on threat indicators.

To that end, DHS is improving and expanding our information-sharing programs, including those focused on sharing threat indicators.

And we are developing novel ways for government and industry to collaborate to identify threats before they hit our networks and to respond more quickly and effectively to incidents, which we will discuss throughout the day.

Taking the Next Step & Call to Action
We’ve made a lot of progress. But it’s simply not enough.

We must move beyond routine information sharing. And we must do better at teaming up with the private sector to combat our common enemies in cyberspace—to understand their goals, to understand their actions, to understand the operational effects and implications of their intrusions, manipulations, and disruptions.

As we all here know, the majority of U.S. infrastructure is owned and operated by the private sector—not the government.

So we must be working to enable those in this room—across industries—to better defend your systems and our critical functions.

For far, far too long we have lacked a single focal point to bring government agencies and industry together to assess the digital dangers we face—and to counter them…a place where analysts and network defenders can address these risks together through the full myriad of mission sets when we address cyber.

I am pleased to announce that we are going to change that.

This week the Department of Homeland Security is launching the National Risk Management Center—an initiative driven by industry needs and focused on fostering a cross-cutting approach to defend our nation’s critical infrastructure.

It will employ a more strategic approach to risk management borne out of the re-emergence of nation-state threats, our hyperconnected environment, and our survival and its need to effectively and continually collaborate with the private sector.

So what does that actually mean in practice?

Housed at DHS, the Center will bring together government experts with willing industry partners so that they can influence how we support them. Our goal is to simplify the process—to provide a single point of access to the full range of government activities to defend against cyber threats.

I occasionally still hear of companies and locals that call 9-1-1 when they believe they’ve been under a cyberattack, the best thing to do would be to call this center. This will provide that focal point, we will work with our partners in government who will be on stage today, and others, to provide you what you need to help repel, to help mitigate, to root out the adversary from your systems.

We will be able to take a piece of intelligence, and with the help of the private sector, ask ourselves “so what,” and determine what we’re going to do about it—together.

These days, cyber threat data is like a puzzle piece, for those of you when you started to begin a puzzle with your children and they pick up a puzzle piece, the first question is, “what puzzle does that puzzle piece belong to?” Having the private sector with us will help us to determine what puzzle it belongs to, and then determine how it fits into the puzzle so we can see the trend, we can see the thread, and we can see the purpose, perhaps, of the attack, but certainly the implications and effects. So this is where the expertise of the private sector comes in, to help us contextualize the threat both in the planning phase as well as in the response and recovery. The private sector also knows its operational environment better than we will ever know in the government, so we will look to their expertise to help us understand how the pieces fit together.

So, we will welcome industry experts, side-by-side with ours, to break down the silos and engage daily to develop actionable solutions to defend our critical infrastructure.

We will begin with a tri-sector model focusing on financial services, telecommunications, and energy sectors.

We will push this effort forward in 90-day “sprints” starting immediately to identify key priorities and to conduct joint risk assessments. And we will have a major cross-sector exercise this fall.

We will look to you to influence how we can support you best…to help us tailor our assessments, plans, and playbooks that you can then action.

As I often say from a Department with myriad missions – let’s do what we do best and partner with you to do the rest.

But time is not on our side. So we are moving quickly. I ask all of you to consider working with us to develop the Center and deepen engagement so that we can fortify our defenses.

I would also ask that everyone here—whether you are from a federal agency, a Fortune 500 company, a think tank, or a university—identify at least one new actionable, operational way you can contribute to our nation’s collective cyber defense.

That’s why we are here today. Think about it now. Think about it throughout the day. Commit to it this afternoon. And follow through on it when you leave.

We don’t put together summits to keep admiring all the problems. We do it to solve them.

Our adversaries are crowdsourcing attacks, and today I am pleased to say we will crowdsource our response.

I am sure I speak for my colleagues when I say we do not take your presence here lightly. We appreciate your time, your efforts, your commitment, your leadership, and we thank you for being here. And we hope to enlist your continued efforts in this fight if you’re not already in it with us.

Our digital enemies are taking advantage of all of us. They are exploiting our open society to steal, to manipulate, to intimidate, to coerce, to disrupt, and to undermine. They are using our interconnectedness to attack us—but let’s use the fact that we are all connected to our advantage.

As I noted at the beginning, we are in crisis mode—the “Cat 5” hurricane has been forecast. And now we must prepare.

That leaves us with a choice: admit defeat and assume that our devices and networks will always be compromised—OR respond decisively and dramatically in order to restore security and resiliency to the web. If we prepare individually, we will surely fail collectively.

You’re here today because you believe in working together with clear-eyed urgency. And together, I have no doubt we will turn the tide. So thank your attendance today, thank you for your participation, we look forward to many conversations to come, and we look at the end of the day to announce some very tangible actions that we will agree to throughout the day. So thank you very much and again thank you for joining us at this summit.

https://www.dhs.gov/news/2018/09/10/secretary-kirstjen-m-nielsen-remarks-national-election-security-summit

I’d like to begin by noting that tomorrow marks an important anniversary in our country’s history—the attacks on September 11th, 2001.

Nearly 3,000 innocent people died that day, making it the deadliest terrorist attack to ever occur on American soil. In the days following the attack, our fear and incredulity were replaced by defiance and determination.

From that day came a renewed commitment to protect our country, and it fundamentally changed the way our nation views security.

In the days after 9/11, President Bush established the precursor to my Department—the Office of Homeland Security, which was focused solely on terrorism prevention. That office grew into a Department, and today that Department is charged with protecting Americans from threats as diverse as nation state cyber attacks against our infrastructure to transnational criminal syndicates trafficking people and weapons to lone wolf terrorists attempting to kill with whatever weapons they can find.

I’ve spent a lot of time recently reflecting on how DHS has grown and changed over the past 17 years.

As we work each day to safeguard the American people, we continue to keep our eyes on the horizon, looking for whatever that threat of tomorrow may be, and preparing ourselves to fight against it.

In the past two years, election security has emerged as one of the principal national security threats facing our nation, and that shift has made your jobs much more complicated.

Today, I am glad to be here to assure you that my Department continues to stand ready to assist you in protecting our election systems, and to highlight some of the services we offer.

But before we get too deep into how we are protecting America’s elections, I want to back up and talk a little bit about why this became such an important issue.

During the 2016 elections, the Russian government made a brazen attempt to interfere with our elections and suddenly, the work of those of you in this room was thrust into the spotlight.

The American people demanded answers, and they demanded action. They wanted to know exactly what happened, and what we were going to do to make sure it doesn’t happen again.

So let’s cover the facts: we have no evidence that votes were altered, plain and simple.

What we did see, though, is without question concerning: Russian government cyber actors seeking vulnerabilities and access to U.S. election infrastructure.

We assume Russia’s campaign targeted all fifty states, but in almost all cases, only preparatory activity, such as scanning or basic research, was observed. In an exceptionally small number of cases, actors were able to access the system.

But, as I have said, ANY attempt to interfere with our elections—successful or unsuccessful—is a direct attack on our democracy, and it is unacceptable.

We learned a lot of valuable lessons in 2016, and I’m glad to report that we are miles from where we were then.

Collectively, we have devoted thousands of hours to reducing risks and remediating vulnerabilities in our election infrastructure.

The progress we have made is real, and the nation’s elections are more resilient today because of the work we are all doing.

But to be frank—a great deal of work remains. The threat is still present, and we must remain committed to securing our democracy.

While we have seen no attempt that matches the scale of that which we saw in 2016, the threats against our election systems are real and evolving. It is incumbent on all of us to work together to continue to increase the security and resilience of the process.

As I have reiterated and time and time again—election security is national security. Elections are the heart of our democracy, and they require fierce protection.

That’s why in 2017, DHS designated our election infrastructure systems as critical infrastructure. While this created no new rules or regulations, it allowed us to prioritize support to you—the operators—just as we would with any other critical infrastructure sector.

The election systems, processes and procedures vary greatly across states and even counties. Just as there is no one correct way to run an election in America, there is no one-size-fits-all solution when it comes to securing an election.

Each state—and even county—must develop a tailored approach based on what works best for their systems, and their voters. That’s why you are the ones in charge—you know what works best for your communities.

Protecting an election from the Russian government wasn’t originally part of your mission or mine, but it is the challenge before all of us now.

I am not here to tell you how to do your jobs. You are the experts. I am here to assure you that my Department is here to help. We want to ensure that you, your staff, and other officials in your states have the necessary information and support to assess your risks, mitigate vulnerabilities, respond to incidents, and build resilience into your systems.

This includes offering no-cost technical assistance, such as cyber hygiene service for internet-facing systems, and risk and vulnerability assessments. We can also help to ensure your voter registration databases are securely configured to prevent unauthorized access to data.

These services can be force multipliers for you—helping to identify risks or vulnerabilities so you can quickly act to mitigate them.

Many of you have already taken advantage of the full range of these services, and for those who haven’t, I highly encourage you to do so.

In addition, as we gain new insights into potential adversaries and their efforts, we are committed to providing you the government’s best available intelligence. We want to make sure you are aware of potential threats—either against your state or others—as soon as possible.

As part of that effort, we have been working to provide state elections officials with security clearances. We have developed procedures to do one-day read-ins and we are working with the Intelligence Community to downgrade information.

In 2016, there was not a clear process or hub for critical information sharing with election stakeholders to take place.

Together, we have worked together to set up an Election Infrastructure Information Sharing and Analysis Center. This center is providing you and other election officials with timely and actionable information to help protect your systems. I am proud to say that all 50 states and over 1000 local jurisdictions have joined as members and are receiving this important information—making it the fastest growing ISAC in history—a testament to the commitment of election officials nationwide.

This prioritization of highly tailored information is the same model used by other critical infrastructure sectors and is a tried and tested way of making information sharing actionable.

In addition, thanks to your partnership, we have more than quadrupled our awareness into election infrastructure via our Albert monitoring system. These monitors allow DHS to receive real time data flows from election networks to alert on possible incidents, and provide tailored information sharing across the sector. To date, we have 94 sensors deployed across our election infrastructure.

To put that number in perspective, by the midterms, more than 90 percent of registered voters will live in an area where Albert sensors are deployed on their election infrastructure.

But our help goes beyond mitigating your risks and preparing for potential attacks—we are here to support you in the event that an incident does occur. I encourage election officials to report suspected malicious activity and—if requested—we are able to provide assistance in identifying solutions.

No piece of information is too small to help us better understand the risks and share information across the sector. The info you share with us becomes part of a larger picture, and is critical to helping us understand the threat environment, and develop new ways to support you.

This coordination allows DHS to share information relevant to all election infrastructure operators quickly to help others guard against similar threats. 

In sum, whether it’s offering no-cost, voluntary, technical assistance or sharing best practices for securing your IT systems, or providing technical advice on ransomware and destructive malware, our Department stands ready to provide tailored support based on YOUR requirements.

Election security is not a one man sport: it requires communication and cooperation, and we must leverage the capabilities of our teammates.

If you have any questions about the services offered by DHS, please do not hesitate to reach out to Matt Masterson, who is here with me today.

While I am proud of the work that has already been done, and encouraged by growing collaboration, our work is far from over.

I want to ask for your assistance in three areas:

First, continue to get prepared and protected.  Don’t underestimate the abilities of our adversaries.  And don’t assume you won’t be affected by the next attempt.  I assure you, they learn and get better.

Whether you seek assistance from DHS, private sector partners, or other state agencies—utilize the resources available to you.

None of us should assume that we can withstand a nation-state attack on our own.  Let’s continue to work together to protect America’s election systems.

Second, raise awareness with your partners and constituents.  Over the last year we have established relationships and built trust with election officials across this country.  But we can do more to get city and county officials prepared for the potential risks they face.  They are truly on the front lines, and we need your help to ensure that every jurisdiction has access to information and best practices, and knows who to call when they see a problem.

You’ve heard about our Last Mile Initiative – I encourage you to take us up on this service and expand our reach into each and every county and locality.

As importantly, inform the citizens of your states about the work you are doing.  The more they understand what you are doing to secure election systems, the more confidence they will have in our elections.

Finally, build redundancy and resilience into your systems.  Our elections are too important for single points of failure.  We must have the ability to assure the American public that even if a disruption occurs, the results of the election are beyond question.

This means thoughtfully upgrading technology, knowing your vendors and ensuring that they are reliable and secure, and having the right personnel to bring it all together.

In that spirit, last month, I called on all election officials to ensure that every American votes on a verifiable and auditable ballot by the 2020 election.  This is an essential step in giving the American people the confidence that their votes were counted, were counted correctly and that their voices were heard. 

Before I conclude, I wanted to touch on an important, related topic—a challenge to the Department’s ability to operate optimally as we work to stay ahead of threats against our elections.

The National Protection and Programs Directorate—or NPPD—sits on the front lines in defending against rapidly evolving cyber threats against our critical infrastructure sectors. It leads the national effort to coordinate efforts across all 16 critical infrastructure sectors, is responsible for securing the .gov domain, and is home to the main civilian government interface for the sharing of threat information between the public and private sectors.

But NPPD is not named or organized in a way that allows us to confront the threats of today, and it’s time for a change.

If it were up to me, those changes would have been made on my first day on the job, but the responsibility lies with Congress.

The proposed reorganization would create the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, also known as CISA. Not only would this rebrand what is arguably one of the hardest agency names currently to remember, it would also realign its structure to reflect the core cybersecurity and infrastructure resilience mission it exercises.

The opportunity to finally enact CISA into law could not come at a more critical moment for our country’s cybersecurity posture. Heightened aggression from cyber adversaries—including hostile nation states—is only accelerating in volume and sophistication.

Let me be clear: we need CISA urgently.

A strong bi-partisan effort remains underway in both the Senate and House to create the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, and I appreciate the efforts by HSGAC Chairman Johnson and Ranking Member McCaskill, and House Homeland Committee Chairman McCaul and Ranking Member Thompson to put us in a position to make it a reality. I am asking for their continued leadership to get the bill all the way through to the President’s desk.

In addition to Senator McCaskill, the state of Missouri has several strong leaders when it comes to election security. Secretary Ashcroft and Senator Blunt have been great partners working with DHS to protect our election infrastructure and we appreciate their continued efforts as we head into the midterm election. Senator Blunt is serving in a critical election security role as Chairman of the Rules and Administration Committee, which is responsible for any elections-related legislation in the Senate.

I want to close by noting that this is different than any threat we’ve seen before, because our democracy itself is in the crosshairs. We must work together and leave no stone unturned as we work to protect it. And we are working with our partners throughout the Administration to hold cyber attackers accountable. The U.S. has a full spectrum of options – some seen, others unseen – and we are already using them to call out cyber adversaries to punish them and to deter future digital hostility.

We are in this fight with you, and we are here to support you. You are the ones on the front lines, and I want to thank you for the important work you do every day.

By empowering you with valuable information and assistance, we are creating a more resilient election system.

Thank you for the opportunity to join you today. I look forward to continuing our work together to defend our elections.

Let me start off by saying that it is good to be in a room where I won’t be asked questions about why the dark web is dark…or why you can’t pull bitcoins out of an ATM…or why there isn’t a “button” for us to turn off the internet.  These are the types of questions I’ve been asked in D.C. since becoming Secretary…usually by Congress.

But in seriousness, every year when we gather at RSA, we take stock of what’s changed in cybersecurity and forecast what’s next on the horizon.

I believe we have reached one of those “horizon moments.”  And when we look back, we will see this period as a turning point in cyber history.

Why?  Because digital security is converging with personal and physical security—and the public is starting to realize how much they are both intertwined.

We have predicted this convergence for many years. 

But people are waking up to this phenomenon because they are getting robbed of their security…again and again…in sweeping digital heists and pernicious intrusions.

Cybersecurity used to be a problem reserved for the IT department.  It was something out there that someone else handled.  It was not my problem.  Now it is a real-life, daily concern for parents, teenagers, teachers, small business owners, and beyond.

Every facet of our society is now being targeted and at every level:  individuals… industries… infrastructure… institutions… and our international interests.

Simply put, it is now everyone’s problem.  And it is affecting our lives, our livelihoods, and our way of life.

Although I’m the first to admit I could talk about this subject all day, today, I will give you my high-level perspective of the threat landscape.

And I will highlight five areas where we need a new approach to respond to a new age.

First, let me be very clear: the threat picture is getting dimmer, not brighter.

I hate to be the Debbie Downer of cyber conferences, but I begin each morning with an intelligence briefing that covers everything from terrorist plots to drug smuggling.  And I see—as many of you do—that digital threats are multiplying faster than we can keep up.

The cyber threat landscape is different today because cyber is not only a target.  Cyber can be used as a weapon and as an attack vector or method through which nefarious activity is conducted.

Today, our innovations can be stolen and used to diminish our prosperity…our infrastructure can be hijacked and used to hold us hostage…and our institutions can be compromised and used to undermine our democratic process.

Last year was the worst-ever in terms of cyber-attack volume.

Nearly half of all Americans had sensitive personal information exposed online.  But that wasn’t the total for 2017.  That resulted from one single breach, when cybercriminals hacked the Equifax credit bureau.

In the same period, WannaCry ransomware spread to more than 150 countries, paralyzing industries from healthcare to hospitality.  And the NotPetya attack wreaked havoc, creating one of the costliest cyber incidents in history.

By 2021, cybercrime damage is estimated to hit $6 trillion annually1.  To put that in perspective, that’s almost 10 percent of the world economy. 

Making matters worse, the proliferation of internet-connected devices—which make our lives easier, and in some cases more fun—have also made it easier to attack us.

If the past year showed us anything, it’s that our cyber enemies are bolder, more brazen, and savvier than ever before. 

This goes for nation-states, in particular.

Several years ago, a cyber-intrusion by a foreign rival might look similar to a sloppy home break-in.  You knew you’d been hit because the window was broken, there were boot marks in the hallway, and your favorite electronics were missing. 

Today, our adversaries are getting more sophisticated—and sinister.  The door is still locked when you get home and everything looks normal.  But in reality, the intruder has already been inside for hours and will remain in hiding, waiting to steal or to harm.  Your confidence in the security of your home—and the sanctity of your home—have been forever affected.

Our response to the evolving threat environment is complicated by the fact that different attackers have different objectives. 

Some foreign governments want to siphon away our classified information to outmaneuver us or weaken our defenses.

Others try to steal intellectual property, trade secrets, or bulk data, including personal information on ordinary Americans.

This may be to advance their own industries or to undermine specific individuals down the road—or simply to better understand our patterns, our behavior, and our choices in order to manipulate us.

In some cases, foreign governments are committing cybercrime to finance their regimes.  And still others seek to compromise our critical infrastructure, so that one day in a conflict they can turn our vital systems against us—or, simply turn them off. 

In some ways we are at a disadvantage because our cyber adversaries have a different risk calculus or cyber activity threshold.

They seem to believe the digital realm is fair game for nefarious activity, and they are often indifferent to collateral damage.

Look, for instance, at the viral spread of volatile malware.  Last year both Russia and North Korea unleashed destructive code that spread across the world, causing untold billions in damage.

The United States – and our allies - exposed both nations for their reckless actions.

But why would they take such risks in the first place?  The answer is simple—they think they can get away with it.  And too often they have.  The consequences have been limited.

In response to the evolving threat, the Department of Homeland Security is adopting a more forward-leaning posture.

Soon the Department will release our new cybersecurity strategy.

It will bolster our digital defenses by prioritizing enhancements in risk identification, vulnerability reduction, threat reduction, and consequence mitigation.  And it will focus on strengthening the security of the broader cyber ecosystem.

But today I want to give you a preview of themes guiding that strategy and highlight five areas in particular where I believe we need a new approach for a new age. 

The first is systemic risk.

We must be more aware of vulnerabilities built into the fabric of the internet and other widespread weaknesses.  We must be more aware of single points of failure, concentrated dependencies, and cross-cutting underlying functions.

An attack on the financial sector, for instance, can quickly have an impact on the energy grid, which can affect water systems, which can affect healthcare and agriculture…and you can’t predict where it will stop because of our endless inter-connectivity and digital dependence.

We cannot afford get stuck in silos and focus only on vulnerabilities within specific sectors, assets, and systems.  We must also prioritize securing essential functions across sectors, including those executed through multiple assets and systems.

Whether it is common tools such as GPS or payment and settlement systems, our cyber risk assessments need to factor in shocks to the system that could have untold, cascading consequences.

So what are we doing about it?

First, I am making sure this perspective shapes DHS engagement with the private sector, our risk assessments, and our prioritization of services and tools.

For instance, we recently launched a voluntary initiative to identify and mitigate systemic risk in supply chains.

We are working with users, buyers, tech manufacturers, and others to hunt down unseen security gaps—and to share actionable information that will help close them.

This includes identifying companies in the supply chain whose risks might go unnoticed.

And we need your help.  We ask you to work with us to identify systemic risks, to flag emerging ones, and to work with us to fix them.

That leads to my second focus area:  collective defense.

Our hyperconnectivity means that your risk is now my risk and that an attack on the “weakest link” can have consequences affecting us all.

Everyone is cyber vulnerable.  And everyone has a role to play in making cyberspace more secure.  The attack-and-defend cycles are no longer merely fights between hackers and network defenders.  Today, we are ALL on the frontlines of the digital battlefield.

It’s like getting ready for a natural disaster.  If we prepare individually, we will fail collectively.

That is why collective defense is now central to our long-term cyber strategy.

Looking five years out, the Department of Homeland Security aims to have far greater awareness of dangerous threats before they hit our networks…to dismantle major illicit cyber networks in minutes, not months…and to be faster, smarter, and more effective in responding to incidents.

We cannot get to this place alone.  We need your help.

The bad guys are crowd-sourcing their attacks, so we need to crowd-source our response.

Unfortunately, we are not quite there yet.  Much like the pre-9/11 period, we have the data points to stop attacks, yet we still aren’t sharing quickly enough to connect the dots—especially not with a threat evolving at machine speed.

That is the reason DHS is working on efforts such as Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS).  Every time someone sees a threat, we want them to share it securely and quickly so others can protect themselves right away.

AIS does exactly that and has allowed companies big and small to block known malware and root out intruders.

Another example of successful collective defense is the Financial Systemic Analysis and Resilience Center, which was started by a number of banks in 2016 to understand and manage systemic cyber risk.

The FSARC stood up an initiative to help industry and government alike identify the key players and unique threats around a national critical function – the wholesale payment system – and to jointly develop solutions to buy down that risk end-to-end.

I encourage other sectors to emulate the FSARC model and drive towards collective defense.

Third, we need to refresh our thinking about what the federal role in cybersecurity should be.

I know people may get the chills when I say that.  But bear with me.

I’m not talking about “federal regulators.”  We need to be “federal empowerers”—using our resources to offer voluntary assistance and unique tools to address cyber market failure.

For example, too often, in a rush to be first-to-market, young companies are dis-incentivized to build security into their products.

Why sell a $30 cyber-secure pedometer for marathon runners when you can sell a basic version for $5?  And who wants to buy the $30 version?

Our approach to addressing this problem is two-fold.  First, we want to enable better “supply-side” security by helping creators build defenses into the design and creation of their products.

We are developing tools we can share to identify bugs and risks earlier, with the goal of moving from “first-to-market” to “first-to-market secure.”

We are also working to coordinate the disclosure of newly-discovered vulnerabilities so that developers can correct problems before adversaries exploit them.

Secondly, we need to drive “demand-side” security by educating more consumers to be security conscious, and ensuring our services match up with what the consumer needs and wants.  

Consumers must demand products that put security first.  And we can help do that by raising greater public awareness of cyber risks.

My fourth point is that today there is only so much we can do on the prevention side.  Despite our best efforts, we will get hit, over and over again.  We have moved from “if” to “when” to “how often” and “how long can you withstand persistent attacks.”

So in an era of advanced persistent threats, we need to urgently focus on what I have called “advanced persistent resilience.”

I would offer in the cyber realm this means the system or asset must continuously deliver the intended outcome despite ongoing attacks.

We must be obsessed with building redundancy into our systems so that when they get attacked and fail, they fail gracefully.  So that when they fail, we innovate as we recover.  We not only ounce back but we bounce forward.

Systems should be designed so that parts can function offline—“unplugged”—without a requirement to take down the entire system or network.

The recent cyber attack on the City of Atlanta is a cautionary tale.  Without built-in redundancy, critical systems went dark and public services slowed to a halt.

Today the pressing need for resilience is highlighted by the issue of election integrity.

Two years ago, the Russian government launched a brazen, multi-faceted influence campaign aimed at undermining public faith in our democratic process generally and our elections specifically.

That campaign involved cyber espionage, public disclosure of stolen data, cyber intrusions into state and local voter registration systems, online propaganda, and more.

We cannot let it happen again, and that is why DHS has adopted an aggressive posture for helping to defend our election infrastructure.

We have been working with state, local, and private sector partners to offer voluntary assistance—including cyber hygiene scans—to better protect critical election-related infrastructure systems.

We have been promoting best practices to make sure that, even if there are incidents, our election infrastructure has built-in redundancies.

And we have been advancing new efforts alongside interagency partners to counter the efforts of foreign adversaries to sow discord in our democracy. 

The President has been clear, and DHS and our interagency partners have been clear:  We will not allow any foreign adversary to change the outcome of our elections.

Every American must have confidence in the integrity of the system and that their votes will be counted—and counted correctly. 

That leads me to my fifth and final subject:  cyber deterrence.

If we really want to stop bad behavior, we have to deter it.  That’s not new.

What’s new is that our digital lives now depend on it.

The threats are so severe that if we don’t start identifying and punishing our assailants, they will overtake us.  And the costs of interconnectivity will start to outweigh the benefits.

So as Secretary of Homeland Security, I am working with my counterparts in the President’s cabinet to fight back.

And I have a news flash for America’s adversaries:  Complacency is being replaced by consequences. 

We will not stand on the sidelines while our networks are compromised.

We will not abide the theft of our data, our innovation, and our resources.

And we will not tolerate cyber meddling aimed at the heart of our democracy.

The United States possesses a full spectrum of response options—both seen and unseen—and we will use them to call out malign behavior, punish it, and deter future cyber hostility.

In today’s hyper-connected world, cybersecurity is national security.  Our cyber defenses help guard our very democracy and all we hold dear.

So to those who would try to attack our democracy, to affect our elections, to affect the elections of our allies, or to undermine national sovereignty, I have a simple word of warning:  DON’T.

My appeal to those of you in this room today is to work together.

You hear that all the time from this stage, but I mean it—tell us what you need from DHS, flag the risks and threats that you are seeing, work with us collectively to block digital enemies, and innovate with us to stay ahead of the threat.

We need to harness the energy of the people in this room to evangelize the idea that security is a core business function and is a competitive advantage.

Your commercial efforts toward network security are also a public service toward national security.  So please think about how you can take that mentality back to your workplaces following this Conference.

In the meantime, DHS will continue to work with you so that we can raise our shields without lowering our standards. 

We don’t need to close ourselves off from the world in order to protect our networks.  And we shouldn’t have to dial back our innovation.

Together we will forge a path that will give Americans—and all those that share our interests—greater confidence in their digital security.

I look forward to working with you all.  Thank you.