https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/01/donald-trumps-2018-davos-strategy-was-brilliant-stroke/

That was just one of the key lines in President Trump’s highly successful Davos speech this week.

Of course, in going to Davos, Trump entered the lion’s den. A year ago such a visit would have been a poor idea. Back then, elitist heads of state, the EU bureaucrats, and the international CEOs were uniformly against Donald Trump.

But Trump’s 2018 Davos strategy was a brilliant stroke.

A year later he could make the fact-based argument that, in his words, “The world is witnessing the resurgence of a strong and prosperous America.”

And the core of his message was this: “There has never been a better time to hire, to build, to invest, and to grow in the United States.”

He’s right.

Trump’s polices, in just one year, have begun to restructure the American economy. We’ve moved from “secular stagnation” (i.e., high taxes, massive regulation, huge government spending, and a disdain for business and investors) to a new private-sector incentive system that rewards success.

By slashing individual and corporate tax rates, providing 100% immediate expensing for plants and technology, and making it easy for big companies who fled our high-tax system to bring the money back home, he has ended the war against business and investment.

And it has happened faster than anyone imagined possible.

More than 250 American companies have announced gigantic investment projects, paid sizeable bonuses to their workforces, increased 401(k) contributions, and raised corporate minimum wages and other benefits.

And now, a roaring stock market, generating $7 trillion in new wealth, provides the only realistic chance of bailing out excessive government-union pensions and benefits — even though these very unions totally opposed Trump’s corporate tax reform.

Ankle-biting Democrats say, “Rising business profits will go to shareholder buybacks.” As if that were a bad thing. Meanwhile, new money is circulating throughout the economy to start new companies and re-oxygenate the system.

Didn’t Apple just announce $ 350 billion in new investment projects?

Democrats say the incredible business response to tax reform is nothing more than one-time crumbs for workers. But didn’t Walmart — which has bitterly fought attempts to raise the federal minimum wage — just raise its internal minimum wage for virtually all its wage earners, give bonuses of up to $1,000, expand maternity and parental leave, and commit $5,000 to every employee who adopts a child?

That’s permanent, as are increased retirement-fund contributions.

The post-tax-and-regulatory reform policies of the Trump administration have barely been put in place, yet they’re already benefiting working folks around the country. These are people who have barely had a raise in 20 years.

Trump’s critics belittled the idea that corporate tax cuts could actually increase wages. But in faster than a New York minute, several million wage earners have already benefitted.

Then there are the know-it-all critics who say there’s no academic evidence to support the view that business taxes matter for the workforce.

Yet peer-reviewed papers — from respected economists Alan Auerbach, Laurence Kotlikoff, and the Romer family — conclude that higher after-tax returns to capital generate investment. I’ve been saying this for a long time. With more capital behind each worker there’s greater productivity. And new investment projects raise the demand for workers and their wages.

And don’t forget the president’s argument about the importance of regulatory reduction. “Regulation is stealth taxation,” Trump said in Davos. “We are freeing our businesses and workers so they can thrive and flourish as never before.” Don’t forget that the Trump tax bill ended the Obamacare individual mandate and opened the door to energy drilling in ANWR.  

And then, in Davos, the president offered a fantastic point on the so-called debate over globalism and trade: “As president of the United States,” he said, “I will always put America first, just like the leaders of other countries should put their countries first also. But America first does not mean America alone.” [Italics mine.]

In an illuminating interview with my friend and CNBC colleague Joe Kernan, Trump said he’s willing to deal on trade — including NAFTA, and perhaps the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). But he correctly insisted on reciprocity. Barriers should be torn down by both sides. Arbitrations must protect America, not penalize it.

“I’m a free trader,” he said. “A fair-trader. But there must be reciprocity.”

He also told Kernan that the U.S. dollar will strengthen based on America’s resurgence, and that it will remain the world’s reserve currency.

So, America First came to Davos, and to all the multi-lateral globalists and multi-nationalist elites. And these CEOs, bureaucrats, and academics listened carefully to Trump’s words.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/01/steve-bannons-wolff-book-political-suicide-boosts-stock-market/

There were two big money-and-politics stories in the first week of the new year: The Dow Jones soared 577 points and Steve Bannon ended his political career.

Are these two events related? Perhaps more than you might think.

Bannon’s peculiar notions of populism were essentially anti-growth. He believed higher taxes, ultra-protectionism, and a cheap dollar would help the middle class. Supply-siders like me know these policies only damage the economy, with the middle and lower classes suffering the most.  

And though Bannon was pushed out of the White House months ago, he apparently still had the president’s ear. So his influence has continued to worry investors and business.

But Bannon went belly-up politically this week, and the stock market soared. And some are calling it the Bannon-is-gone rally.

This is an over simplification. There are many positives driving shares higher, including the Trump tax cuts and the expected rise of business profits, the mother’s milk of stocks.

But Bannon was never a strong advocate of the Trump tax-cut plan. Instead, he wanted to raise income taxes for successful earners, from 40 to 44 percent.

Steve Moore, Art Laffer, and I had numerous conversations with Bannon, trying to talk him out of this. President Trump, we argued, would end Obama’s wars on success and business with policies that generate faster economic growth.

How does punishing upper-income people help spur investment or job creation? How does hurting the so-called rich help the middle class? Those are Democrat arguments, and failing ones at that.

A rising ride lifts all boats. JFK, Jack Kemp, and Ronald Reagan believed it. So does Donald Trump.

Would you rather have 2 percent or 4 percent growth? The answer is 4 percent.

But raising income tax rates at the top end –as president Obama did, and Bannon wanted to — gets you back to 2 percent growth.

Bannon never really understood the incentive model of growth. Rewarding entrepreneurs is the key to prosperity. In this sense, everybody’s in the same boat.

Bannon also was lukewarm on the corporate-tax-cut package. He never bought into the argument that slashing large and small business taxes predominantly benefits wage earners. In fact, everyone benefits: upper, middle, lower.

It’s called making the pie larger.

Late one afternoon, Steve Bannon tried to make a deal with Steve Moore and me in his office: “If you guys back my 44 percent top tax rate, I’ll support your 15 percent corporate tax rate.” We wouldn’t buy it. It made no economic-growth sense.

The fact that Bannon would see us frequently speaks well of him. He was always accessible, friendly, and good humored — even in debate.

I enjoyed our friendship. He’s been welcome in our Connecticut home. My criticism of his policies is not personal.

That said, backstabbing the president and his family in a book — Fire and Fury, by Michael Wolff — was a terrible mistake. As a result, his political career has gone up in flames.

But the market’s up and Bannon’s down. There’s a connection.  

Bannon is not only opposed to pro-growth tax-rate relief. He’s a fierce ultra-protectionist. He wants no new trade deals and higher tariffs.

He has argued that the Chinese are guilty of currency manipulation and must be heavily penalized. But the Chinese yuan has appreciated substantially in recent years. So by implication, Bannon was arguing for a cheaper dollar.

Well, no country ever devalued its currency into prosperity.

You know who gets hurt most by tariff taxes? The middle class, paying much higher prices for daily living needs. All manner of businesses also suffer, as imports are choked by tariffs and quotas.

Bannon even favored the border adjustment tax, which would have jacked up import prices. But favoring high tariffs and a crumbling dollar was his worst economic mistake.

So Bannon commits political suicide and the stock market cheers. It’s not far-fetched.  

There are many definitions of populism. But I think American populism is a belief that the citizenry should be empowered, not the government. I can agree with Steve Bannon here, in particular when he criticizes crony capitalism and the swamp of money for lobbyist favors.

But I’m not sure Bannon buys into the free-market capitalist model.

Wage earners have suffered over the last 20 years, and the answer is not high tariffs and taxes. The answer is to make America great again by lifting the burden of taxation, regulation, and unlimited government, and restoring a far-reaching, long-lasting prosperity.

Prosperity is American populism. And that’s the President Trump way.

I hope Steve Bannon will reflect on his downfall and revisit these prosperity lessons. In life, doors close and doors open. We can learn from our mistakes and move on to better times.

A smart guy like Bannon should work to help us, not harm us.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/12/midterm-election-prospects-improve-trump-and-gop-tax-cut-bill/

With President Trump’s signing of the big tax-cut bill, the GOP snatched victory from the jaws of defeat. Suddenly, the political and economic landscapes have changed. The Republican party has turned the tables on the Democrats.

Trump and the GOP are on the side of the growth angels with the passage of powerful tax-cut legislation to boost business investment, wages, and take-home family pay. The Democrats, meanwhile, are left with stale class-warfare slogans about tax cuts for the rich.

Ironically, government unions, with their pension plans heavily invested in equity shares, will benefit hugely from the tax-cut-led stock market boom. They boo the GOP bill while they should be cheering.

But there’s a lot of irony to go around. Unlike the pro-growth, tax-cut party of JFK, today’s left-lurching Democrats root against economic growth, the stock market, and a powerful prosperity at home that lends strength abroad.

This is not a good place for Democrats to be.

If the supply-side business tax cuts perform as well as I believe they will, Trump and the GOP, with the stroke of a pen, will have greatly enhanced their outlook for the midterm elections.

One of the more incredible things about this story is the almost immediate support of large companies. Bank of America (BofA) announced $1,000 bonuses tied to the tax-cut bill, affecting 145,000 employees. And AT&T and Comcast announced $1,000 bonuses for more than 300,000 people combined, along with substantial new investments in the United States. Ditto for Boeing.

And more banks have joined the parade. Wells Fargo, PNC, BB&T, and Fifth Third are raising their minimum wages to $15 an hour.

And all this is tied to a massive corporate-tax-rate deduction from 35 to 21 percent. This is the most powerful growth measure in the plan. Trump called it “tax love” in a tweet.  

At the old 35 percent rate, our companies took home 65 cents on the extra dollar. At the new 21 percent rate, they’ll take home 79 cents. This enormous 21 percent incentive rewards new risk-taking, investment, a recycling of overseas profits to the U.S., and additional after-tax profitability.

Combined with 100 percent immediate cash write-offs for new investment, and the one-time repatriation of foreign-held earnings, this is the largest supply-side stimulus since 1986.

The result will be a business boom, where new capital formation and productivity increases the economy’s potential to grow. This is counter-inflationary. And we can say goodbye to 1 to 2 percent secular stagnation and hello to 3 to 4 percent long-run prosperity.

And when you toss in lower marginal tax rates for individuals and the doubling of the standard deduction, you have even more potential for growth.

A recent Tax Foundation analysis from Scott Hodge notes that even the low-ball Joint Committee on Taxation agrees that the tax cuts pay for themselves. How? More GDP will be generated than revenues lost to the Treasury. For every $1 lost, the tax cuts produce roughly $1.90 in additional GDP.

Also from the Tax Foundation, the biggest tax-liability reductions come to the middle class. A single, $52,000 earner claims a 36 percent reduction in tax liabilities. A married, filing-jointly family making $85,000 gets a 20 percent tax-revenue reduction.

And a married, filing-jointly family earning $2 million only gets a 3 percent reduction in tax liabilities. So much for the tax-cuts-for-the-rich argument.

And let’s not forget, inside the plan, there’s drilling access to ANWR and repeal of the Obamacare individual mandate. And let’s also not forget the Trump administration’s massive reductions of burdensome business regulations.

At the end of the day, the success of the Trump tax cuts will not be decided by Democrat-leaning polls or highly flawed econometric models. The proof in this pudding will be in the eating.

With the supply-side model of lower marginal tax-rate incentives to work, save, and invest, plus significantly less tax avoidance and sheltering, the economy will move back to its normal, steady-state pattern of 3 to 4 percent growth.

Already, in the past two quarters, we’re seeing a bump in business-equipment investment, producing better than 3 percent growth. The fourth quarter is likely to remain above 3 percent. The results of lower withholding rates, accompanied by higher income-bracket thresholds, will show up in February.

More take-home pay is always a winner. And businesses large and small are beginning to pull the investment trigger. Yes, the middle class will benefit. But everyone will profit from the first business boom in over 20 years.

JFK, Ronald Reagan, Jack Kemp, Art Laffer, and the rest of the supply-side clan — which now includes Donald Trump — believes that a rising tide lifts all boats.

So which is better: 1 to 2 percent stagnation or 3 to 4 percent prosperity?

Let the voters decide next year. But I’m taking the high ground.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/12/congressional-tax-cut-plan-will-spark-investment-boom-and-rapid-economic-growth-will/

Warts and all, if I were a voting member of Congress, I would certainly cast a “yea” vote for the tax-cut plan passed by the Senate and House and headed for conference (to work out minor differences) in the weeks ahead.

These bills are not perfect, especially on the individual side. But the business tax cuts will generate an investment boom in the years ahead. And those cuts will bring economic growth back to its historical norm of 3 to 4 percent.

Incredibly, the Joint Tax Committee (JTC) scored growth for the Senate plan at less than 1 percent. So much for their “dynamic” model. The Tax Foundation estimates 3 to 5 percent growth over the next ten years. That’s more like it, but it’s still too low.

Look, the central cause of the 2 percent real-GDP growth slump over the past 17 years has been a lack of capital formation, with virtually no real business investment, flattened productivity, and barely any increase in real workforce wages.

Yet the tax plans under discussion — which go back to the work of Steve Moore, Steven Mnuchin, Stephen Miller, Art Laffer, Steve Forbes, and myself — are remarkably similar to the Trump campaign draft on the business side.

So I can say with confidence that the current tax package is directly aimed at reducing the current high tax cost of capital and increasing after-tax returns from investment.

Incentives matter. If it pays more after tax to build new capital stock and generate more business-equipment investment, people will do so. This is standard economics.

There may be disagreements on the numerical effects, but the principle has worked in the past (JFK and Reagan) and will work in the future.

A 20 percent corporate tax rate, immediate full expensing, repatriation of U.S. corporate cash overseas, and a 23 percent discount for sub-chapter S pass-throughs (much credit to Senator Ron Johnson for this) will generate way more growth and investment than mainstream forecasters suggest.

At various times, President Trump has talked about 3 percent, 4 percent, and even 5 percent growth. Despite the dreary mainstream models, I believe the president will turn out to be correct.

What’s more, faster economic growth will generate much higher tax revenues. From businesses to investors to entrepreneurial startups, less tax avoidance and sheltering will raise revenues far beyond the standard consensus estimate.

Supply-siders like myself always buck the trend on pricing out lower tax rates. But again, we were right in the ’60s, ’80s, and ’90s, running against the tide. So I suggest history will repeat itself.

By the way, in terms of the revenue hunt going on in Congress, I wish somebody would look at the lowball estimates compiled by the JTC with respect to repatriation. The JTC estimates $25 billion in 2018, $21 billion in 2019, and $6 billion to $7 billion in the three years following. This is nuts.

Assuming about $3 trillion coming back home at an average tax rate of 10 percent, that’s $300 billion in new revenues — way beyond the JTC estimate. And that’s conservative. It could be $350 billion in the first year or two — substantially more revenue and a way bigger pay-for than the JTC predicts.

And there’s more on the dynamic side. Booming stock market gains of roughly $6 trillion of late could generate another $600 billion or $700 billion in revenues from capital gains, and hundreds of billions of dollars more in dividends, which generate massive revenue increases.

None of this is scored. The government forecasters don’t understand international flows and the interactions of stocks, capital gains, and dividends. Their estimates are probably several trillion revenue dollars short.  

Sure, there are things on the individual side that should be changed. Personal tax rates should be much lower. A backdoor capital-gains tax hike on individual investors must be erased. And the proliferation of tax credits is inefficient and complex, with no marginal incentives to promote growth.

Yes, everybody likes kids. But not everyone has them. And a lot of people like dogs and cats. Shouldn’t they get tax credits, too? No. If you’re looking for more money in your pocket — more take-home pay — the best prescription is to slash personal tax rates for everyone.

(By the way, why didn’t Congress end the carried-interest loophole for private-equity firms?)

But here’s the crux of the matter: An investment boom generating much faster growth will benefit everyone. Small businesses, new businesses, investors, and wage earners will all prosper from a tax-cut-led investment boom.

Yes, a rising tide will lift all boats. The great news is that President Trump, the Senate, and the House are absolutely moving in the right direction, and gathering momentum on the way.

I’d vote for it. You should, too.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/11/house-and-senate-will-pass-pro-growth-tax-reform-year/

As the House and Senate work their way through the tax-cut-and-reform effort, let me make one thing clear: Both plans are pro-growth where the economic power comes from the business side. And where it comes from the personal side, there will be very little growth. That was always the bet.  

During the spring and summer of 2016, economist Steve Moore and I, working with Trump campaign officials Steven Mnuchin and Stephen Miller, saw major tax reductions for large and small businesses as the centerpiece of the candidate’s tax policy. Whatever Congress came up with on the personal side, so be it.

So one way or another — even with the glitches and differences between the House and Senate tax plans — Congress will come up with a significant pro-growth bill because business tax cuts are still the centerpiece. And they should do it this year.  

I spoke at the Senate Republican breakfast in Washington last Tuesday. The whole leadership was there. And I observed a total commitment among the GOP senators to get a tax bill through by year-end. This will not be another health-care breakdown. 

Particularly after recent GOP electoral setbacks, the party knows it needs a strong tax-cut and economic-growth narrative for the 2018 midterms. If Republicans don’t get it, they’ll lose control of Congress.

And if they do get it, they may pick up seats.

The political stakes are high.

As mentioned, there are glitches in both the Senate and House tax plans. But most of them can be corrected. And the differences between the two plans should narrow in conference.

The all-important business tax rate will come down to 20 percent from 35 percent. That’s the key to economic growth. And the biggest beneficiaries will be middle-class wage earners.

The issue of small-business pass-throughs is not completely resolved. It seems the Senate has a better take on this than the House. But there’s a small-business tax cut coming.

The Senate’s idea to phase in the new corporate tax rate in 2019 is a bad idea. (President Trump agrees.) To be sure, the GOP senators want full cash expensing for capex projects for 2018. Good. But as Art Laffer warns, if you hold back the actual rate reduction, you’ll see a lot of tax avoidance and sheltering next year.

That will include offshoring. A delay will deter foreign companies from coming to the United States. You may wind up losing revenues — perhaps $100 billion.


On the House side, the so-called “bubble rate” of 45.6 percent is also not a good idea. It’s being done to claw back the 12 percent rate high-end earners move through on the way to 40 percent. But why punish success?

Those upper-end folks are largely investment-oriented. As FedEx CEO Fred Smith says, it’s time to stop punishing investment. That includes businesses and individuals.

Let the Democrats be the class warriors who tax the rich. GOP stands for growth.

I assume this will be fixed in conference.

There are other issues. The personal side is a mishmash of credits and deductions. This is no Reagan bill of 1986. Good tax reform slashes individual rates so that reductions and loopholes are no longer necessary.

But there’s no slashing on the personal side, and it will be a fight over deductions. And frankly, I’m underwhelmed by the deduction part.

I keep thinking: Why didn’t the House and Senate simply agree on a 3 percent growth rate? And why haven’t they embraced the Trump administration’s argument that the business tax cuts will pay for themselves and generate 3 percent growth over the next decade?

House and Senate negotiators agreed on a 2.6 percent growth baseline. It’s better than the CBO’s 1.9 percent. But with 3 percent, they would have picked up $500 billion to $700 billion in additional revenues from faster growth.

Unfortunately, no model captures the significant pro-growth effects of international flows, such as repatriation and the possible capital inflow from foreign companies. Is it possible this could be changed in conference? Just a thought.

Of course, that old bugaboo is back: the Byrd rule. It annuls tax cuts if they promote deficits after ten years.

So here’s another thought: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell used the nuclear option to end the filibuster on Supreme Court justice Neil Gorsuch. So why not nuclear-option the Byrd rule? Vice President Mike Pence is ready in the wings to override any objection.

The GOP must not let process stop growth-producing tax cuts. Growth is too important.


So let’s play hardball, GOP, and do what’s necessary to get these pro-growth tax cuts legislated and signed before year-end.

That will move the American economy back to the top of the worldwide heap. As JFK and Ronald Reagan argued, when we are strong at home, we’re strong abroad.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/10/pro-king-dollar-fed-chair-trumps-pro-growth-agenda/

President Trump is likely to name a new Federal Reserve chair over the next few days. Speculation is focused on current Fed governor Jay Powell and Stanford economist John Taylor. The list may be larger. It could still include Janet Yellen or Kevin Warsh. Trump is soliciting opinions and advice from people in and outside government. We will see soon enough.

Unfortunately, so much of the conversation about a new Fed leader is focused on who will be the high-interest-rate hawk or the low-interest-rate dove. But that’s not really the way we should be looking at it.

Here’s a point no one has discussed: the fate of the dollar.

Now, strictly speaking, dollar policy is the purview of the Treasury Department, which has the authority to intervene in exchange markets to buy or sell dollars. By the way, Congress also has a constitutional prerogative to set dollar value.

Years ago, during the 1990s, Democrat Robert Rubin was in charge of the Treasury, and he advocated a strong-dollar policy. And a couple of times, just in case markets didn’t believe him, he intervened to buy dollars to punctuate his policy.

But the Federal Reserve and its money-creating balance-sheet policies must work with the Treasury to execute dollar policies. In the long run, Treasury interventions don’t really have any clout. It’s the Fed that really counts.

And yet we don’t really know what dollar policies the Fed candidates favor.

So far as I know, Janet Yellen hardly ever mentions the dollar. Nor does Jay Powell, at least not in his very few public speeches.  

And while President Trump sometimes publicly favors a steady dollar, he sometimes warns that he does not want a particularly strong greenback.

But I think the best policy is a steady, sound, reliable King Dollar.

If you look at periods of dollar weakness, especially the 1970s but also the 2000s, a sinking dollar is usually associated with rising inflation, higher interest rates, and damage to the economy. In these circumstances, investors at home and abroad lose confidence and take their money elsewhere.

President George W. Bush’s pro-growth tax cuts were partly nullified by a sinking dollar. Yet when JFK and Ronald Reagan slashed marginal tax rates, they also favored a sound dollar. (I covered this at length with Brian Domitrovic in our book JFK and the Reagan Revolution.) Low taxes and a stable dollar was a winning combination that promoted economic growth without inflation.

There’s a lesson to be learned here. But we haven’t really seen any reference to the dollar from the Federal Reserve for many years. It seems not to be part of the Fed’s flawed and outdated economic models.

By the way, it’s not just the dollar exchange rate with other currencies. The value of our money should also be judged by forward-looking, inflation-sensitive market indicators, such as commodities, gold, and Treasury bond spreads.

Fed-chair possible Kevin Warsh has warned that the central bank should not rely on labor-market indicators to gauge future inflation. He instead advocates a market-based price rule. This is similar to the approach used by Reagan Fed appointees Wayne Angell, Robert Heller, and Manley Johnson — and, for most of his term, Alan Greenspan.

And Fed-chair hopeful John Taylor is working on a study that argues for a return to a rules-based international currency system. Several years ago, Paul Volcker, who himself used gold and commodities as leading inflation indicators at the Fed, argued for a rules-based monetary policy at home and new international currency cooperation abroad.

So if President Trump gets his tax cuts and continues his regulatory rollbacks, the economy will return to its historic norm of 3 to 4 percent growth. And faster real growth will lead to higher real interest rates and a higher real-exchange-rate value for our money.

Already, as business anticipates much-needed tax cuts, the dollar is rising and gold is falling, as growth moves to 3 percent with minimal inflation.

This is a good thing. We’re not talking about a skyrocketing currency and interest rates, but important adjustments to pro-growth economic policies.

But we won’t get there without a stable dollar.

If the White House, Treasury, and Fed try to intervene for a weaker dollar, they will soon run into trouble. The tax cuts could be neutralized. Long dormant inflation may reappear. And interest rates will wind up going much higher than otherwise would be the case.

It’s a shame no one has directly asked the Fed candidates about the dollar. Because more people working successfully for higher wages in a strong-growth economy do not cause inflation, as Fed models unfortunately predict. But a sinking greenback will.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/07/trump-takes-aim-russias-energy-market-share-warsaw-speech/

Afew years back, in one of his finest moments, Senator John McCain said on a Sunday talk show that “Russia is a gas station masquerading as a country.” It was right when he said it, and it’s even more right today.

Vladimir Putin’s circle of corrupt oligarchs gouge whatever money they can from the impoverished Russian economy and move it to bank accounts overseas. And they do this after giving Putin his cut, after which he apparently also sends the money overseas.

Many say Putin is the richest man in Russia, worth billions and billions. So the old Soviet model of the nomenklatura Communist bureaucrats getting rich while the rest of the country declines is still in place.

But with energy prices falling, Vladimir Putin’s Russia has essentially been in a recession over the past four years. With oil at $50 a barrel or less, Russian budgets plunge deeper into debt. It’s even doubtful the Russians have enough money to upgrade their military-energy industrial complex.

Through crafty media relations and his own bravado, a deluded Putin struggles to maintain the illusion that Russia is a strong economic power. But it ain’t so. Not even close.

Now, Russia still has a lot of oil and gas reserves. And it uses this to bully Eastern and Western Europe. It threatens to cut off these resources if Europe dares to complain about Putin power-grabs in Crimea, eastern Ukraine, the Baltics, and elsewhere.

But enter President Donald Trump. In his brilliant speech in Warsaw, Poland, earlier this week, he called Putin’s energy bluff.

It may well have been the best speech of his young presidency. Trump delivered a stirring leadership message, emphasizing the importance of God, freedom, strong families, and democratic values.

And while unambiguously pledging to uphold NATO’s Article 5 — committing the members to protect one another — Trump went even deeper: “The fundamental question of our time,” he said, “is whether the West has the will to survive. Do we have the confidence in our values to defend them at any cost?”

He said, “if we do not have strong families and strong values, then we will be weak and we will not survive.” He also spoke several times of the religious leadership and bravery of Pope John Paul II.

It was a bold strike for the West.

But in an absolutely key part of the speech, he took direct aim at Vladimir Putin’s energy bullying.

Trump said, “We are committed to securing your access to alternative sources of energy so Poland and its neighbors are never again held hostage to a single supplier of energy.” Italics are all mine.

President Donald Trump has quickly made it clear that Barack Obama’s war on business is over. He’s also made it clear, through regulatory rollbacks of breathtaking scope, that the Obama war on fossil fuels is over.

Trump wants America to achieve energy dominance. He withdrew from the costly Paris climate accord, which would have severely damaged the American economy. He directed the EPA to rescind the Obama Clean Power Plan, which would have led to skyrocketing electricity rates. He fast-tracked the Keystone XL pipeline. He reopened the door for a modernized American coal industry. He’s overturning all the Obama obstacles to hydraulic fracturing, which his presidential opponent Hillary Clinton would have dramatically increased. And he has opened the floodgates wide to energy exports.

Right now, U.S. oil reserves are almost in parity with those of Saudi Arabia. We have the second-most coal reserves in the world. There are enough U.S. gas reserves to last us a century. We have already passed Russia as the world’s top natural-gas producer. We are the world’s top producer of oil and petroleum hydrocarbons. And exports of liquified national gas are surging, with the Energy Department rapidly approving new LNG projects and other export terminals.

All these America-first energy policies are huge economic-growth and high-wage-job producers at home. But in the Warsaw speech, Trump made it clear that America’s energy dominance will be used to help our friends across Europe. No longer will our allies have to rely on Russian Gazprom supplies with inflated, prosperity-killing prices.

In short, with the free-market policies he’s putting in place in America’s energy sector and throughout the U.S. economy, the businessman president fully intends to destroy Russia’s energy-market share. And as that takes hold, Russia’s gas-station economy will sink further.

And as that takes hold, bully-boy Putin will have to think twice about Ukraine, Poland, and the Baltics. He’ll have to think twice about his anti-American policies in the Middle East and North Korea. And he’ll have to think twice about his increasingly precarious position as the modern-day Russian tsar.

And the world may yet become a safer place.

Trump has Putin over a barrel.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/07/freedom-and-declaration-independence/

What is the Fourth of July? It’s a wonderful time. We’re outdoors. We’re with family and friends. We’re playing golf or fishing. There are barbecues and baseball and fireworks and all that good stuff.

And beneath it all, supporting it all, there is freedom. Freedom. The Fourth of July is about freedom, if nothing else. America’s freedom, of course. But a freedom that extends to all people. One that leads to greatness and prosperity. A freedom that has become the backbone of the world.

I would like to take a moment this holiday to revisit the sources of that freedom. They were outlined so eloquently in perhaps the greatest document ever written, the Declaration of Independence. And they’re as crucial now as they were 241 years ago.

It’s a well-known story. Back in 1776, the Continental Congress sought freedom from tyranny. They said, “We’re revolting against a British monarchy and parliament that doesn’t represent us. We’re rebelling against laws we don’t control and are capricious to say the least.”

To formalize this revolt, the congress formed a committee of five. Chosen were Thomas Jefferson, Robert Livingstone (New Jersey), John Adams, Ben Franklin, and Roger Sherman (Connecticut). A pretty spiffy group of thinkers and writers.

Their task was to draft a statement of independence — although what they came up with was so much more.

Their document, “The Unanimous Declaration of the thirteen united States of America,” was adopted on July 4, 1776, after days of debate and revision. The document begins:

“When in the Course of human events it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature’s God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation.”

I’d like to underscore the civility of that opening. This document is an example of civility. The great American revolt was a defense of the right of discussion. Civil discourse. Respectful disagreement.  

Then there are “The Laws of Nature and Nature’s God.” We derive our freedoms not from governments, but from God. It was a revolutionary thought at a time when dictatorial monarchs across Europe believed they were gods.

Then we have perhaps the most famous sentence in the English language, if any language:

“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.”

That truly was revolutionary stuff. And it was beyond just the colonies.

The authors were saying, “We’re speaking about the people here, but also about oppressed peoples everywhere, those burdened with dictatorial, who-cares-about-the-little-people  governments.”

And they spoke of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

Life. Our very existence.

Liberty. You can’t take my freedom away.

The pursuit of happiness. To live the way we want to live, to do the work we want to do, to marry whom we want to marry; to have kids, accumulate property, and be prosperous.

I’ve said this often: The most populist desire of the people of the United States and other free nations is long-lasting, deep-seated prosperity. Speaking of which, the long list of complaints against George III’s Britain included: “cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world” (protectionism), “imposing Taxes on us without our Consent” (remedied with supply-side tax cuts), and (hat tip Seth Lipsky, New York Sun) a hint of stable money: “the amount and payment of [judges’] salaries.”

But the Declaration, critically, goes on:

“That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, — That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government.”

Taking these statements together, we see a pecking order. There is God, a higher power or Nature’s God, who grants us the unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And whatever government is formed around this works for the people. And if the government lacks the consent of the people, there must be great change.

From the Lord, to us, and then to government.

And when government breaks down, does poorly, or becomes corrupt, it needs to be replaced one way or another.


There’s a little bit of that going on today, is there not?

It’s the Fourth of July. It’s freedom day. The government works for us, not the other way around.

If it doesn’t, the government gets kicked out on its keister.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/09/president-trumps-turnaround-has-greatly-increased-chances-significant-tax-cuts/

Financial markets and most media pundits are missing the new writing on the wall. For a variety of reasons surrounding shrewd moves by President Trump, the chances for significant tax cuts in the next ten weeks have risen sharply.

Since the Charlottesville blow-up in mid August, when the president’s fortunes were at low ebb — and I’ll repeat my view that there’s not a white-supremacist, racist, hateful bone in Trump’s body — we’ve witnessed a dramatic executive turnaround. Trump beautifully handled the hurricane emergencies. His bipartisan political pivot to “Charlie and Nancy” to keep the government open and raise the debt ceiling was clever indeed. As economist Steve Moore puts it, POTUS publicly spanked GOP leaders Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell. And though there’s plenty of confusion about immigration reform, it’s clear now that 800,000 dreamers won’t be deported for at least two years if ever.


Some polls show POTUS’s approval nearing 50 percent. The public likes what it sees. And most important, Trump has cleared the decks for tax cuts and reform.

Make no mistake: Trump is absolutely committed to tax cuts. This is completely unlike the health-care muddle. And critical here is the argument Trump is making: A big drop in large- and small-business tax rates will mostly benefit middle-class wage earners.

Research from Kevin Hassett, formerly of AEI and now chairman of the CEA, shows about 70 percent of the benefits of business tax cuts going to wage earners. This is not a tax cut for the rich, as Johnny-one-note Democrats insist.

There are two big numbers standing atop Trump’s tax plan: 3 percent and 15 percent. Three percent is the new growth path that will normalize America’s economy and generate at least $3 trillion of additional revenues over ten years (or sooner). This is the mother of all pay-fors. Fifteen percent is the corporate rate that will spur capital-formation, business-investment, productivity, and real-wage increases.

The Republican establishment says it can’t be done. They’ll only risk dropping the business rate from 35 to 25 percent. But Trump wants the full 15. So does his Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin. Other than the president, Mnuchin, whom I call the “apostle of growth,” is the only administration official to keep up the drum beat for 3 and 15 percent.

Aparna Mathur of AEI notes that at 39.1 percent, including state taxes, the U.S. has the highest statutory rate among G20 nations. (China is 15 percent.) And our average corporate rate, which is total taxes paid as a share of income, is 29 percent, third highest in the G20.

So echoing the president, if we want to build out investment, jobs, and wages, bring back overseas profits, stop American companies from going overseas, and make the investment climate in America tops in the world, we need a big-bang slash of our business tax rate.


It’s not a matter of bean counting. It’s a matter of growth-oriented economic policy.

Trump is ending Obama’s wars on business and success. He’s halting the war on fossil fuels. And he’s virtually rolling back the regulatory state. OMB reports that roughly 800 pending business regulations have either been frozen, rolled back, or reclassified in the administration’s first seven months.

Slashing the business tax rate is the necessary complement to this regulatory relief.   

And GOP lawmakers have ten weeks to do it.

Can they? Will they?

Here’s some progress: It looks like Paul Ryan is taking off his CBO green eyeshades. Rather than insist on “revenue neutral” tax policy, he seems to be returning to his Jack Kemp, supply-side roots, arguing that growth is the most important issue.

The CBO is a big part of the swamp that President Trump would drain. With its pathetically small growth estimates, it blocks pro-growth tax-cut policies. Neither CBO nor the Joint Tax Committee has any serious models showing how lower tax rates reduce tax-avoidance and tax-sheltering — a point made emphatically by supply-side mentor Arthur Laffer.  

But Mnuchin’s Treasury will come up with more realistic models for the Trump tax cut. And there’s no reason why these estimates can’t be used.

What’s more, there’s no reason why the ten-year scorecard window can’t be extended to 20 years. The green-eyeshade process must not be permitted to block an American prosperity renaissance.

The GOP needs a budget resolution, which will contain crucial, 51-vote reconciliation instructions on spending and taxes. But where there’s strong political will, legislative ways and means will be found. Ten weeks is plenty of time.

So I agree with my friends at Bretton Woods Research: Budget and tax-cut draft legislation is coming sooner than folks think. My financial take? Buy stocks, go long the dollar, and short gold.


In other words, optimism.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/09/trumps-incentive-based-tax-plan-will-deliver-prosperity-and-stronger-economic-growth/

Much as he did in his command performance before the U.N. when he took back control of U.S. foreign policy, President Trump has seized and energized the tax-cut issue. Almost daily, he is pounding away on the themes of faster economic growth and more take-home pay, arguing that his plan will make America’s economy great again.


This is Trumpian leadership at its best.

“Under my administration,” Trump just told the National Association of Manufacturers, “the era of economic surrender is over.”

The Trump plan would slash large and small business tax rates, double the standard deduction for middle-income folks, make the whole tax code simpler by eliminating unnecessary deductions, repeal the death tax, and end the alternative minimum tax.

As usual, Democrats say the president’s plan is a hand-out to the rich. But in a recent speech in Indianapolis, Trump asked: Why can’t this be a bipartisan tax cut bill? He even quoted Democrat John F. Kennedy, who said, “The right kind of tax cut at the right time . . . is the most effective measure that this government could take to spur our economy forward.”

He also reminded his audience that President Reagan’s tax cuts were passed with significant bipartisan majorities.

But today’s Democrats have written JFK’s tax story out of the history books (never mind Reagan’s).

Key tax-writing committees are now polishing the Trump plan, fine-tuning it to pass the Senate with 51 votes. But there are a couple of key points that need clarifying.

The argument that the U.S. is doomed to 2 percent or less growth — “secular stagnation” — no matter what we do in terms of tax policy, is nonsense. Across-the-board tax cuts produced 5 percent annual growth during the JFK period. And after tax cuts were fully implemented in 1983, real growth averaged 4.6 percent for the remainder of Reagan’s presidency.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and NEC Director Gary Cohn are touting the 3 percent growth scenario, saying it will pay for the tax cuts. But the naysayers refuse to admit that tax-rate incentives matter.

Okay, let’s take one example from the Trump tax plan. Corporations today are taxed at 35 percent. That means, for every extra dollar of profit, a company keeps 65 cents. But the president has agreed on a 20 percent corporate tax rate. So, for the extra dollar earned, the private company would keep 80 cents.

That’s a massive 23 percent incentive reward. Do we really think businesses will not be affected by this? That defies logic.

And as supply-side mentor Art Laffer points out, the incentive reward of a lower business tax rate will reduce tax avoidance and sheltering. It’s another solid point mainstream economists continue to ignore.

But the incentive effects don’t stop there. The key to wage growth is productivity. Think of it as efficiency. And large and small businesses need new capital investment to modernize equipment and better train an efficient workforce.

Yet real wages have barely increased since 2000, alongside virtually no productivity increases and a huge slump in capital formation. That’s the missing link between a 2 and 3 percent economy.

Rather than punish investment, the Trump plan will spur growth across the board. Everyone will benefit.

The supply-side incentive effect also includes the repatriation of trillions of U.S. company dollars lodged overseas to avoid taxes, as well as 100 percent expensing write-offs for new investment of any kind.

Taken together, this plan contains a mountain of incentives.

On the individual side, the sleeper tax detail is the doubling of the standard deduction. As my CNBC colleague Jake Novak points out, this is a huge positive for young millennials (who don’t own much) and folks with no mortgages or homes. It puts more cash in worker’s pockets, simplifies the code, and means that near 80 percent of taxpayers won’t have any deductions.

Slimming income-tax rates from seven to three brackets and cutting income-tax rates in general add even more supply-side incentives to the Trump package.

More money for rich people? Well, the not-rich family of four will be a lot better off with a $24,000 standard deduction. And the center-right Tax Foundation calculates that the bottom 80 percent of households get a lower tax burden, while the top 20 percent get ahigher burden.

The Republican party has got to win this issue, preferably this year.


So, a warning: The GOP cannot let archaic process rules prevent good policy. Rules can be changed. CBO estimates can be ignored. Parliamentarian decisions can be overridden.

Play hardball, GOP. JFK did it. Reagan did it. And now you have Donald Trump doing it — using all his energy to get a big tax cut that will return prosperity to America’s workers and families and enhance our strength overseas.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/06/nancy-pelosis-remarks-could-signal-return-civility-after-alexandria-shooting/

Sometimes terrible tragedies can bring us together, and I’m hopeful that somehow a lasting good will come out of the ballfield shooting in Alexandria, Va. Maybe even a rebirth of civility, which has virtually disappeared from politics, and perhaps our culture as well.

Representative Steve Scalise, fighting it out in a hospital in Washington, is an old friend of mine. I watched as he rose through the House ranks to become whip. Like everyone else, I’m praying for his full recovery. He’s a wonderful man.

And like most everyone else, I was happy to hear President Donald Trump talking about unity in the wake of the shooting. He said, “We are strongest when we are unified and when we work together for the common good.”

I can say the same for Speaker Paul Ryan, who true to form spoke beautifully and passionately from the House floor, saying, “I ask each of you to join me in resolving to come together.” He emphasized, “An attack on one of us is an attack on all of us.”

But I want to put a spotlight on one person who really surprised me with her unexpected remarks. She got me thinking — praying — that maybe, just maybe, some lasting good will come out of this tragedy.

Nancy Pelosi also spoke on the House floor in the hours after the shooting. She said her prayers were with Scalise, the Capitol Police, and the Hill staffers hit on that ballfield.

And she said much more.

She said, “You may not know this, my colleagues, but every time I pray, which is very frequently, and certainly every Sunday, I pray for all of you. All of you, together.”

She told her colleagues, “In the earlier years I used to pray for your happiness, for the fact that we would work together.”

She said she would “heed the words of President Kennedy in the closing of his inaugural address, when he said . . . ‘God’s work must truly be our own.’”

That’s a central theme in my book, written with Brian Domitrovic, JFK and the Reagan Revolution. Reagan and Kennedy were civil in public as they sought to persuade, not smear, their opponents. And they both reached across the aisle to achieve their policy goals.

It’s something we need to return to — desperately. And Nancy Pelosi spoke in that spirit.

“How do we view what God’s will is for us?” she asked. “How do we come together to give confidence to the American people that, as our Founders intended, we would have our disagreements and we would debate them and we would have confidence in our beliefs and humility to listen to others?”

To listen to others.

For a long time I have been talking about the need for a rebirth of civility. We cannot continue the meanness, personal slurs, and polarizing attacks, all of which are doing great harm to America.

And now, sparked by tragedy, Nancy Pelosi seems to have said: Let us come together. Let us have civility in our discussions. Let us have a sense of humanity. Maybe even a sense of caring. Let us pray for ourselves and the rest of the country. Let’s do this together.

And she said even more: “And pray for Donald Trump, that his presidency will be successful and that his family will be safe. Because it is about family.”

When did you ever think you would hear Nancy Pelosi say that? It was a welcome surprise.

No, I’m not here to defend her politics. I’m a conservative. She’s a liberal. I have my beliefs. She has her beliefs. The battle of ideas must go on.

But our tone, our style, our civility, our ability to listen — it seems to me that that’s what’s been missing for so many years.

The blame is on all sides. It’s in the executive branch, the Senate, the House. No one in this game is clean. Let’s add the media and academia as well.

And the political divide is large — across taxes, health care, and a whole raft of tough agenda items. I get that.

I’m just saying, if Nancy Pelosi, who has been in Washington a good long while, is coming out and speaking of unity, civility, and humility, it’s worth listening to.

Many of my friends disagree with this Pelosi kudo. Some believe I am hopelessly naïve. They may be right.

But right now, today, I choose to believe that Nancy Pelosi means for all of us to be calm, to be humble, to be civil, and to work together.


I’m praying for that, because if that’s the case, we will get important things done to help this country and each other.

Let’s hope, let’s pray, that something is changing here.