https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/small-businesses-starting-expanding-amid-trump-tax-cuts/

Chris Smolenak is tapping into the “do-it-yourself” trend – and creating a small business herself.

She’s opened a storefront in Holland, Pa., where customers stain and stencil their own handcrafted wooden signs and other decorative items. After 25 years working for a large corporation, she wanted more flexibility in her schedule and time for her children, but still needed enough income to support her family.

“The security of the paycheck and benefits was very important to us,” she said. “I’m feeling that I can create that feeling of security on my own based on what I’m seeing in the economy.”

Under President Trump, the booming economy is giving entrepreneurs like Smolenak the confidence they need to start or expand small businesses.

In surveys done by the United States Chamber of Commerce, NFIB, and the National Association of Manufacturers, members report record or near-record levels of optimism.  Having been laid off during the recession in 2008, Smolenak wasn’t willing to take a risk until she was sure the market could sustain it.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act President Trump signed into law in December helped motivate her to start her business. Many small businesses will now be able to deduct 20 percent off their business income in addition to having their taxable income taxed at lower rates. And for the first five years, they’ll be able to write off investments in new equipment the year the investment is made.

As I meet with small business owners all over the country as head of the U.S. Small Business Administration, I constantly hear about the real investments they’ve been making in their companies and their employees since the tax cuts took effect – raising wages, providing bonuses and benefits, and creating more jobs.

The owner of a landscaping company in Florida told me he’s using his tax savings to buy a new truck and forklift to expand his services and get more customers – he’s already hired another employee to help with the bigger workload. The owners of a rock climbing gym in North Carolina told me their tax savings are accelerating plans to add another location. I am confident I will hear more on Thursday in Philadelphia, where I’m hosting a roundtable with local entrepreneurs.

America’s 30 million small businesses are the engines of our economy, one that’s been turbocharged under President Trump. The jobs report released last Friday showed the unemployment rate at a healthy 3.9 percent, with more Americans entering the job market to fill the jobs employers are now creating. The number of job openings is at a record high, and for the first time on record, there are more job openings than unemployed people looking for work.  The unemployment rate for Hispanics is now at the lowest level ever recorded, the unemployment rate for African Americans has set record lows, and the unemployment rate for women was recently at the lowest level since 1953. A Gallup poll found two-thirds of Americans believe now is a good time to find a quality job.

Under President Trump’s leadership, more people are working – the employment-population ratio, an important measure of the share of Americans who are working, increased to 60.5 percent in July – the highest it’s been since January 2009.

Workers’ pay is improving, too. Average weekly earnings rose 3 percent over the past year. As a result of the tax cuts, at least 6 million workers have seen bigger paychecks and more benefits.

With more money in their pockets, Americans are spending again – and that’s good news for small businesses like Smolenak’s.

As her customers DIY their projects, she’s focused on one of her own – crafting a business that’s helping build the economy.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/sba-boosts-womans-dream-expand-business/

Rebecca Fyffe just expanded her Chicago-area pest control business, moving to a new warehouse that enables her to buy supplies in bulk and price her services more competitively. And as demand rises for science-based pest control practices that better protect both the environment and public health, she’s already planning her next phase of growth – expanding beyond Illinois.

“We really couldn’t be where we are today without SBA assistance,” she said. “They’ve helped us in every phase of our growth process.”

The U.S. Small Business Administration is proud to be part of Fyffe’s success – helping her develop a business plan, access capital needed to finance her growth, and counseling her on diversifying her customer base.

The SBA helped Fyffe access federal contracts to service government buildings, and even connected her to an engineer who mentored her on reading the buildings’ blueprints and hiring employees with the right skill set. As part of National Small Business Week, the SBA recognized her as the 2018 National Small Business Person of the Year.

“It’s an opportunity to thank the SBA for the incredible support they provided my business,” Fyffe said.

National Small Business Week celebrates entrepreneurs like Fyffe and all of our nation’s 30 million small businesses, which employ nearly 59 million Americans. Nearly half of our private workforce works for a small business, and small businesses create two out of every three net new jobs in the private sector each year.

Entrepreneurs are not just job creators; they are innovators and problem-solvers, creating products and services that are better, smarter or more efficient than what came before.

Fyffe was motivated by a tragedy that affected her family. Her cousin was permanently disabled after contracting encephalitis from pigeon droppings he encountered while playing in a Chicago alley. Fyffe sought a solution that would help protect other families from facing what hers did and identified a business opportunity.

“Children living in buildings with cockroaches have a greater likelihood for asthma, even fatal asthma attacks,” she said. “I approached pest control from a social justice perspective and focused on scientific methodology, so I’m doing something very different and unique.”

The SBA is working to help even more entrepreneurs create solutions to meet consumer demand. It is the nation’s only go-to resource for small business, backed by the strength and support of the federal government, and providing entrepreneurs with the tools they need to succeed.

The SBA – through its headquarters in Washington; its 68 district offices nationwide; and resource partners like Small Business Development Centers, Women’s Business Centers, Veterans Business Opportunity Centers and SCORE chapters – serves small businesses at every stage of their lifecycle.

The SBA guarantees loans for entrepreneurs who cannot access capital from other sources, mitigating a lender’s risk. It offers counseling on starting and scaling a business, from how to draft a business plan to how to export products overseas.

In addition, the SBA trains small business owners to compete for government contracts. And it helps those recovering from a declared disaster get back on their feet.

As head of the SBA, I am honored to work with President Trump as an ally and advocate – ensuring small businesses can compete and thrive in a local, national and global marketplace.

Through cutting taxes, rolling back overly burdensome regulations, supporting workforce development and enhancing opportunities in rural America, this administration is showing that a thriving economy creates an even stronger America.

This is a terrific time for entrepreneurship, and the SBA is working to power the American Dream by removing barriers to small businesses.

“My message for other entrepreneurs is you don’t have to go it alone,” Fyffe said. “The SBA’s services are already here for you. It’s much better to ride on the shoulders of giants than try to reinvent it for yourself.”

https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/nurturing-small-business-boon/

Mike Zaffaroni calls the newest piece of equipment at his landscaping company in Jacksonville, Florida, his “Tax Cut Truck.”

He had long wanted to expand the services he offers to his customers and says the tax cuts President Donald J. Trump signed into law six months ago were the motivation he needed to buy the $80,000 truck and forklift.

“Without the tax cuts, we’re not so sure it would have been the right move for us financially,” he said.

Under the new tax law, Mr. Zaffaroni will be able to write off the entire cost of the purchase this year. Along with the lower tax rates and other benefits of the law, he says his accountant estimates he’ll save 7 percent to 10 percent on his taxes this year. That’s a big saving for a small company like his, and it’s money he’ll reinvest in his business.

“We’re going to be able to expand, we’re going to add a product line, we’ll be able to deliver more materials than we were able to before,” Mr. Zaffaroni said. “We’ve actually already hired another driver, so that also adds another job.”

I toured Mr. Zaffaroni’s company, Liberty Landscape Supply, soon after he was named Florida’s National Small Business Person of the Year, and just days after the truck was delivered.

“It makes it very real,” he told me. “A lot of America doesn’t really understand the implication these tax cuts have on each individual small business.”

Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act President Trump signed into law, most small businesses will now be able to deduct 20 percent off their business income in addition to having their taxable income taxed at lower rates. And for the first five years, they’ll be able to write off investments in new equipment the year the investment is made.

As head of the United States Small Business Administration, I constantly hear from small business owners like Mr. Zaffaroni who are investing their tax savings in their companies and their employees — raising wages, providing bonuses and benefits, and creating more jobs.

As we mark six months since Mr. Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law, we continue to see more Americans working. The unemployment rate of 3.8 percent matches the lowest level it’s been in nearly 50 years. The unemployment rate for women is at the lowest level since 1953. African-American and Hispanic unemployment rates have hit record lows. A Gallup poll found two-thirds of Americans believe now is a good time to find a quality job. The number of job openings is at a record high and, for the first time on record, there are more job openings than unemployed people looking for work.

Families all across the country are not only seeing more take-home pay because their taxes are lower. The paychecks for workers are getting bigger, too. In the first quarter of 2018, private sector workers saw their hourly compensation increase at a 4 percent annual rate — the fastest pace in at least 12 years. As a result of the tax cuts, at least 6 million workers have already seen bigger paychecks, bonuses and increased benefits.

With more money in their pockets, Americans are spending again — and that’s good news for small businesses. After years of stagnation, small businesses now have the confidence they need to hire more workers or purchase new equipment, like the truck at Liberty Landscape Supply. In surveys done by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, CNBC, the National Federation of Independent Businesses and the National Association of Manufacturers, members report their highest-ever levels of optimism. A survey done by Bank of America found that 37 percent of small business owners are planning to invest in their businesses this year as a result of the tax cuts.

Surrounded by germinating flowers and tree saplings, Mr. Zaffaroni means it when he says his business is growing. Since buying a small landscaping company with just one employee in 2007, business has blossomed. Liberty Landscape Supply now has six full-time employees, a farm and two locations, and he’s making plans to open more. He needs cash to make that happen, and the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is providing the seed money he needs.

“It sounds like it was designed specifically for businesses like mine and we want to take advantage of it,” he said.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/heres-midstate-business-benefited-trump-tax-cut/

Artie Tafoya has big plans for the Appalachian Brewing Company, the Harrisburg-based craft beer and soda business he co-owns. He wants to add capacity, build his customer base and hire more workers. And thanks to the recent federal tax cuts, he’s confident he can get it done.

“They’ve allowed us to look toward the future and decide we’re ready to grow again,” he said.

I met Artie at the restaurant, brewery and event space he and his partners built with the help of a loan guaranteed by the U.S. Small Business Administration.

The 26,000-square-foot space in Silver Spring Township has 80 employees and serves as many as 300 customers a day.

It produces specialty beers, as well as all the root beer and other craft sodas served at the company’s six restaurants and bottled for sale in thousands of locations across the country.

And still, Artie notes, the facility is operating at only 15 percent capacity. As it grows, he’ll create 20 or 30 more jobs.

Growth had stalled after this location opened in 2014, but since President Trump signed the tax cuts into law, Artie and his partners are feeling optimistic: “We see the future as being pretty bright. We see people spending money now.”

Artie’s optimism reflects what I hear from small business owners I meet with all over the country. And it’s reflected in multiple surveys of entrepreneurs. In surveys done by the National Federation of Independent Businesses, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, CNBC and the National Association of Manufacturers, members report their highest-ever levels of optimism.

As a result of their confidence in our economy, small business owners are creating jobs. The latest jobs report shows that since President Trump was elected, almost 3 million jobs have been created.

The national unemployment rate has fallen to 4.1 percent, the lowest it’s been in 17 years. The number of people getting unemployment benefits is the lowest since 1973. Meanwhile, wages are on the rise – up 2.7 percent, the highest twelve-month rate during any calendar year since 2008.

These numbers aren’t just good headlines. They have a real impact in on America’s 30 million small businesses and in effect, the millions of people who own or work for them. They’ll be taxed at lower rates. When filing taxes, most businesses will be able to deduct 20 percent of their business income. And for the next five years, they’ll be able to write off a significant portion of the cost of investments in new equipment in the year the investments are made.

Artie Tafoya says all of these factors will make a difference. As he showed me around the bottling facility, he pointed out what he called the “heart” of the operation – a giant piece of equipment that instantaneously mixes soda syrup with water, cools it, carbonates it and sends it to the bottling machine. It’ll be too small for the growth he envisions, so he’s planning to purchase another – and thanks to the tax cuts, he’ll be able to write off that investment.

Many entrepreneurs tell me they’ll invest their tax savings in their businesses – adding resources, improving technology, raising wages or giving bonuses to employees.

And because of their lower tax rates, most workers are seeing more money in their paychecks.

The Council of Economic Advisers estimates the economy will grow by three percent on average over the next ten years, and household incomes will increase by about $4,000 a year due to the corporate tax cuts alone.

As consumers in central Pennsylvania shop and dine out more, they’ll put more money into their local economy – and into businesses like Artie’s.

https://www.cincinnati.com/story/opinion/2018/08/05/opinion-tax-cuts-delivering-relief-small-businesses-need/862559002/

When I visited Cincinnati in September of last year, small business owners who joined a roundtable I hosted were clear on one thing – taxes were a burden taking too much time and money they’d rather be investing in their businesses.

"If I pay less taxes, I can accelerate our growth and create more jobs," said the owner of a Cincinnati-based restaurant chain.

"Negotiating the large array of taxes we pay is difficult," an entrepreneur from Fairborn said. "The complex IRS laws necessitate hiring an accountant and are an added burden."

"Any money I can retain and reinvest in my business helps tremendously," said the owner of a concrete supply company in Loveland.

In December, President Donald Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law, giving these entrepreneurs and the rest of America’s 30 million small businesses some welcome relief. Most small businesses will now be able to deduct 20 percent off their business income in addition to having their taxable income taxed at lower rates. And for the first five years, they’ll be able to write off investments in new equipment the year the investment is made.


It’s now been seven months since the tax cuts took effect, and small business owners are making real investments in their businesses and their employees – raising wages, providing bonuses and benefits, and creating more jobs.

The owner of a landscape company in Florida told me he’s using his tax savings to buy a new truck and forklift to expand his services and get more customers – he’s already hired another employee to help with the bigger workload. The owners of a rock climbing gym in North Carolina told me their tax savings are accelerating plans to add another location. The owner of a commercial bakery in Massachusetts told me he’s using his tax savings to buy another oven, add capacity and hire more workers. These are just a few of the stories I hear as I travel around the country as head of the U.S. Small Business Administration.

This truly is a golden age for small business. The unemployment rate is a healthy 4 percent, with more Americans entering the job market (600,000 in June alone!) to access the good jobs employers are now creating. The number of job openings is at a record high, and for the first time on record, there are more job openings than unemployed people looking for work. The unemployment rate for women was recently at the lowest level since 1953. The same can be said for African-American and Hispanic unemployment rates. A Gallup poll found two-thirds of Americans believe now is a good time to find a quality job.

Workers’ pay is improving, too. As a result of the tax cuts, at least 6 million workers have seen bigger paychecks and more benefits. With more money in their pockets, Americans are spending again – and that’s good news for small businesses. In surveys done by the United States Chamber of Commerce, CNBC, NFIB, and the National Association of Manufacturers, members report their highest-ever levels of optimism. A UBS poll found nearly half of America’s small business owners plan to invest more in their businesses and a third plan to increase hiring as a direct result of the tax cuts.

These statistics and surveys tell a clear story, but it’s the stories I hear from small business owners that really inspire action. These are real entrepreneurs and real businesses, with real successes and challenges. I want the ones who asked for lower taxes at last year’s roundtable in Cincinnati to know that I heard them, and the president heard them. We continue to listen to America’s small businesses and work toward their continued success.

