http://time.com/4557033/transcript-melania-trump-campaign-speech/

I remember that day in June, 2015 vividly, surrounded by our family and speaking to an audience of millions, Donald Trump is to campaign on behalf of those who feel the system is broken and does not work for them. Those who just want a fair shape (ph) and opportunity for a better education, a better paying job, a better future.


He pledges to restore integrity for Washington, and respect for America abroad. This is not an ordinary campaign, it is a movement.

A movement in which people still (ph) included, inspired and involved. I have seen it firsthand, we are deeply grateful to the millions of American who believe in my husband, because they know he believes in you.

He believe in America and he will make a fantastic president of these United States.

I come here today to talk about my husband, Donald, and his deep love and respect for this country, and all of its people. I have come here to talk about this man I have known for 18 years. And I have come here today, to talk about our partnership, our family, and what I know for sure in my heart about this man, who will make America great again.

I know exactly what that means. I grew up in a small town in Slovenia near a beautiful river and forest. Slovenia is a small country that back then, was under communist rule. It was a beautiful childhood, my parents were wonderful. Of course, we always knew about the incredible place called America. America was the word for freedom and opportunity. America meant if you could dream it, you could become it.

But I was 10 years old. We learned of a man Ronald Reagan was elected president of the United States of America.

Before, we would watch what he was saying and doing. President Reagan’s Morning in America was not just something in the United States. It began to feel like morning around the world, even in my small country. It was a true inspiration to me. Later, I lived in Milan and Paris, working hard as a fashion model. I worked with people from all over the world. Fashion is a business of glamour, but it is also hard work. There are ups and downs, high highs, and ridicule, and rejection too.


I loved my work, and as a young entrepreneur, I wanted to follow my dream to a place where freedom and opportunity were in abundance. So of course, I came here. Living and working in America was a true blessing, but I wanted something more. I wanted to be an American. After a 10 year process, which included many visas and a green card, in 2006, I studied for the test and became a U.S. citizen.

It is the greatest privilege – it is the greatest privilege in the world. I’m an immigrant, and let me tell you, no one values the freedom and opportunity of America more than me, both as an independent woman, and as someone who immigrated to America.


Love for this country is something we need immediately shared with when I met Donald. He loves this country, and he knows how to get things done, not just talk. He certainly knows how to shake things up, doesn’t he?

He knows how to make real change. Make America great again, is not just some slogan. Is it what has been in his heart since the day I met him. Over the years of our marriage, I have watched my husband grow more and more concerned, as he sees American workers suffer. I have watched him get frustrated as he sees parents struggle to care for children while working outside the home. I have watched him as he sees over and over again policies that make our country less strong, less secure, and less safe.


Every time my husband learned of a factory closing in Ohio, or North Carolina, or here in Pennsylvania, I saw him get very upset. He could see what was happening, he saw the problems. And he always talked about how he could fix them.

My family is truly blessed. The most important thing we have in our family is health, and love, and loyalty. Donald has built…

Donald has built a very successful company. The privilege to go to work each day to do a job that he loves along side of his adult children. This is a great blessing for any parent.

He had a great and fulfilling life. But Donald knew he could not sit by any more and watch what was happening in our country. And that is when this campaign, this movement, begun.


TRUMP: As Donald travel the country, he has asked some simple but very important questions. What kind of country do we want?

Do we want a country that is safe with secure borders? Yes.

Do we want a country where every American gets fair shot? Yes.

Do we want a country that honors our constitution?

Do we want a country that honors life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness?

Do we want a country that respects women and provides them with equal opportunities?

Do we want a country where every child has access to a good education?

Do we want our children to be safe and secure and dream big dreams?


Do we want president who is beholden to no one but you, the American people?

Yes. Do we want a president who is a fighter for us and will never give up? Yes.

Then we want Donald Trump to be our president.

TRUMP: People have asked me if Donald sees the president – what kind of first lady will you be? It will be my honor and privilege to serve this country.

I will be an advocate for women and for children. Let me…

Let me tell you a little bit more about what that means to me. I’m a full time mother to our son Barron, an incredible boy.




As his father travels around the country running for president, I’m with our son. We talk a little bit about politics, and a lot about life, homework, and sports.



Barron has many privileges and advantages. We know how fortunate we are.

Still, I have the same conversations with my son that many of you have with your sons and daughters, and nieces and nephews, grandchildren and godchildren.

I want my little boy to know that he is blessed to have been born in a country that values individual freedom and constitutional democracy. I want our children in this country and all around the world to live a beautiful life, to be safe and secure, to dream freely of love and a family of their own some day.


We need to teach our youth American values; kindness, honesty, respect, compassion, charity, understanding, cooperation. I do worry about all of our children. As we know, now social media is a centerpiece of our lives. It can be a useful tool for connection and communication. It can ease the isolation that so many people feel in the modern world.

Technology has changed our universe. But like anything that is powerful, it can have a bad side. We have seen these already. As adults, many of us are able to handle mean words, even lies. Children and teenagers can be fragile. They are hurt when they are made fun of or made to feel less in looks or intelligence. This makes their life hard and can force them to hide and retreat. Our culture has gotten too mean and too rough, especially to children and teenagers. It is never OK when a 12 year old girl or boy is mocked, bullied, or attacked. It is terrible when that happens on the playground.


And it is absolutely unacceptable when it is done by someone with no name hiding on the internet.

We have to find a better way to talk to each other, to disagree with each other, to respect each other. We must find better ways to honor and support the basic goodness of our children, especially in social media.

It will be one of the main focuses of my work if I’m privileged enough to become your First Lady.

https://www.harpersbazaar.com/culture/features/news/a21708/melania-trump-speech-international-women-courage-award/

I'm deeply humbled to be here today to honor these 12 remarkable and inspirational women, who have given so much for so many regardless of the unimaginable threat to their own personal safety. Each one of these heroic women has an extraordinary story of courage, which must inspire each of us to also achieve more than we have ever imagined possible. Their lives remind us of the boundless capacity of the human spirit when guided by moral clarity and desire to do good.

These honorees on the stage with me have fought for their rights and for the rights of others. Each battle forces—such as governments, the courts, gender bias, terrorism, war and corruption—and were willing in each moment to face harsh penalties, including imprisonment and death. As they continue to persevere against unimaginable odds, these women are extraordinary examples of reaching within to find the courage that lies inside us all to change the world.

While learning the stories of these 12 honorees, I would like to ask each of us to take this moment and try to imagine what it would be like to experience the trying obstacles, domestic abuse, gender-biased violence, or [governor impression, sic] that some of these women have faced. Let us try to envision ourselves in their place, struggling against gender bias and discriminatory laws, which serve to protect the perpetrators of unthinkable crimes while punishing their victims, who even dare to speak out. Ask yourself if you would have the fortitude of spirit, the courage of your convictions and the enormous inner strength required to stand up and fight against such overwhelming odds.

Amazingly, each of our honorees has courageously answered "yes" to those questions, for it is their strength and the strength of others like them which will ignite a global battle against inhumanity. Together, with the international community, the United States must send a clear message that we are watching. It is therefore our duty to continue to shine the light on each miraculous achieved by women, all capable of trying, truly leading the change to fight for those that cannot fight for themselves.

Theirs are the stories of human greatness that will continue to inspire, and therefore must be told far and wide. These honorees, who have fought on the front lines against injustice are true heroes. Their stories of individual bravery remind us that there is always hope whenever the human spirit is brought to bear in the service of others, and that healing and personal empowerment are often born from such deeds.

I believe that bravery is the ability to leave one's life, refusing to be discouraged, and instead, choosing a life of purpose. Only when we do this are we able to suppress what we previously believe to be possible. Each of these 12 women represents a life of enormous courage—to save a child, to help a family, to make a neighborhood or school safe or to boldly speak out against evil by refusing to back down no matter the personal cost.

To the young people here today, I ask you to allow the triumphs exemplified by these heroic women to inspire you in your own lives, and to remind yourself that you, too, are capable of greatness. I urge you to not be afraid to fail, as failure will never have the power to define you as long as you learn from it. And realize that your first steps will always involve taking a leap of faith by believing in yourself while choosing to replace fear for hope. Let these brave women serve as daily inspiration, as it is now up to each of you to remain vigilant against injustice in all its many forms.

As you go forward, remember their journeys as [we] push ahead and strive to bring about a better community, a better country and a better world in an ongoing fight for right over might. We must continue once again to shine the light on the horrendous atrocities taking place in neighborhoods around the corner and around the globe, where innocent families are crying out to leave in safety. We must continue to fight injustice in all its forms, in whatever scale or shape it takes in our lives. Together, we must declare that the era of allowing the brutality against women and children is over, while affirming that the time for empowering around the world is now. For wherever women are diminished, the entire world is diminished with them. However, wherever women are empowered, towns and villages, schools and economies, are empowered, and together we are all made stronger with them. We must begin now to challenge old fears, fight long-held prejudices and stand up against evil and injustice wherever it may be.

As leaders of our shared global community, we must continue to work towards gender empowerment and respect people from all backgrounds and ethnicities, remembering always that we are all ultimately members of one race: the human race. Each one of us is uniquely gifted. We must continually [revere] our American values as we join with the international community to make our world safer through acts of collaborative and individual bravery.

Thank you, honorees, for your courage, and thank you, Ambassador Shannon, for your support. God bless you and God bless this great nation. Thank you.

http://time.com/4412008/republican-convention-melania-trump-2/

And I can assure you he’s moved by this great honor.

The 2016 Republican primaries were fierce and started with many candidates, 17 to be exact. And I know that Donald agrees with me when I mention how talented all of them are. They deserve the respect and gratitude from all of us.



However, when it comes to my husband, I will say that I’m definitely biased, and for a good reason. I have been with Donald for 18 years and I have been aware of his love for this country since we first met. He never had a hidden agenda when it comes to his patriotism because, like me, he loves this country very much.

I was born in Slovenia, a small, beautiful and then-communist country in Central Europe. My sister, Ines, who is an incredible woman and a friend, and I were raised by my wonderful parents. My elegant and hardworking mother, Amalija, introduced me to fashion and beauty. My father, Viktor, instilled in me a passion for business and travel. Their integrity, compassion and intelligence reflects to this day on me and for my love of family and America.



From a young age, my parents impressed on me the values that you work hard for what you want in life, that your word is your bond and you do what you say and keep your promise, that you treat people with respect. They taught and showed me values and morals in their daily lives. That is a lesson that I continue to pass along to our son.

And we need to pass those lessons on to the many generations to follow.

Because we want our children in this nation to know that the only limit to your achievements is the strength of your dreams and your willingness to work for them.

I am fortunate for my heritage, but also for where it brought me today. I traveled the world while working hard in the incredible arena of fashion. After living and working in Milan and Paris, I arrived in New York City 20 years ago, and I saw both the joys and hardships of daily life.

On July 28th, 2006 I was very proud to become citizen of the United States…



…the greatest privilege on planet earth!

I cannot or will not take the freedoms this country offers for granted, but these freedoms have come with a price so many times. The sacrifices made by our veterans are reminders to us of this. I would like to take a moment to recognize an amazing veteran, the great Senator Bob Dole.



And let us stand, all of our veterans in the arena today and those across our great country.



We are all truly blessed to be here. That will never change.

I can tell you with certainty that my husband has been concerned about our country for as long as I have known him. With all of my heart, I know that he will make a great and lasting difference.

Donald has a great and deep and unbounding determination and a never-give-up attitude. I have seen him fight for years to get a project done or even started, and he does not give up.



If you want someone to fight for you and your country, I can assure you he’s the guy.



He will never ever give up. And most importantly, he will never ever let you down.

Donald is and always has been an amazing leader. Now he will go to work for you.



His achievements speak for themselves, and his performance throughout the primary campaign proves that he knows how to win. He also knows how to remain focused on improving our country, on keeping it safe and secure.

He is tough when he has to be, but he’s also kind and fair and caring. This kindness is not always noted, but it is there for all to see. That is one reason I fell in love with him to begin with.

Donald is intensely loyal to family, friends, employees, country. He has the utmost respect for his parents, Mary and Fred, to his sisters Maryanne and Elizabeth, to his brother, Robert, and to the memory of his late brother, Fred.

His children have been cared for and mentored to the extent that even his advisers admit they’re an amazing testament to who he is as a man and a father.



There is a great deal of love in the Trump family. That is our bond and that is our strength.

Yes, Donald thinks big, which is especially important when considering the presidency of the United States. No room for small thinking, no room for small results. Donald gets things done.

Our country is underperforming and needs new leadership. Leadership is also what the world needs. Donald wants our country to move forward in the most positive of ways. Everyone wants change. Donald is the only one that can deliver it. We should not be satisfied with stagnation. Donald wants prosperity for all Americans.



We need new programs to help the poor and opportunities to challenge the young. There has to be a path for growth. Only then we’ll see earnest resolve.

My husband’s experience exemplifies growth and successful passage of opportunity to the next generation. His success indicates inclusion rather than division.

My husband offers a new direction, welcoming change, prosperity and greater cooperation among peoples and nations. Donald intends to represent all the people, not just some of the people.



That includes Christians and Jews and Muslims. It includes Hispanics and African Americans and Asians, and the poor and the middle class.

Throughout his career, Donald has successfully worked with people of many faiths and with many nations. Like no one else, I have seen the talent, the energy, the tenacity, the resourceful mind and the simple goodness of the heart that God gave to Donald Trump.

Now is the time to use those gifts as never before for purposes far greater than ever. And he will do this better than anyone else can, and it won’t even be close.



Everything depends on it for our cause and for our country. People are counting on him. All the millions of you who have touched us so much with your kindness and confidence, you have turned this unlikely campaign into a movement that is still gaining in strength and number.



The primary season and its toughness is behind us. Let’s all come together in a national campaign like no other.



The race will be hard-fought all the way to November. There will be good times and hard times and unexpected turns. It would not be a Trump contest without excitement and drama.

But trust throughout it all my husband will remain focused on only one thing: this beautiful country that he loves so much.

If I’m honored to serve as first lady, I will use that wonderful privilege to try to help people in our country who need it the most. One of the many causes dear to my heart is helping children and women. You judge society by how it treats its citizens. We must do our best to ensure that every child can live in comfort and security with the best possible education.



As the citizens of this nation, it is kindness, love and compassion for each other that will bring us together and keep us together. These are the values Donald and I will bring to the White House.



My husband is ready to lead this great nation. He’s ready to fight every day to give our children the better future they deserve.

Ladies and gentlemen, Donald J. Trump is ready to serve and lead this country as the next president of the United States!