https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/democrats-complaints-about-chip-funding-are-hypocrisy-in-its-purest-form/2018/05/22/b6b568c8-5df7-11e8-b2b8-08a538d9dbd6_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.e24c7b8bcee8

Just last month, Democratic Minority Whip Steny H. Hoyer (Md.) stated on the House floor, “I wouldn’t irrationally oppose a rescission which said we’ve had money lying in an account that has not been spent for one, two, three years; we shouldn’t just have it sitting in that account.”

About that same time, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (N.Y.) voted to rescind (or, in layman’s terms, to claw back) $6.8 billion worth of funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Plan.

What Hoyer said — and what Pelosi and Schumer did — weren’t all that controversial; Congress claws back unspent and unspendable funds all the time.

So that makes me wonder: Now that President Trump has suggested we do the exact same thing in the exact same program, why are Democrats opposing his common-sense rescission plan to remove $15.4 billion in unusable funds from CHIP and other programs? Has Democratic obstructionism grown to such perverse lengths that Democrats now oppose the exact things they used to support, just because of who is in the White House?

It’s fascinating to watch Democrats in Congress spin a good-government proposal into a message of grave concern. In this instance, Trump is trying to return unspent government money to the taxpayers, while Democrats are demagoguing the effort as his attempt to hurt innocent children. “Never let facts get in the way of a political attack” appears to be the Democratic mantra.

This is hypocrisy in its purest form.

The president’s plan follows one guiding principle: Money that is sitting in federal agencies and not being spent should be returned to taxpayers. Members of Congress who introduced legislation to support this proposal — ranging from the House Freedom Caucus to the moderate Tuesday Group — agree: It is simply good government. And the president is using this housecleaning tool just as his predecessors, from Ford to Clinton, have done.

Within this first rescissions package, the president proposed to rescind $7 billion from CHIP. Specifically, he proposed to rescind funds from two CHIP accounts that either cannot legally be spent or will not be spent under any projection.

The facts are simple:

First, the proposals will not have any impact on the program or children who receive coverage through CHIP. This was confirmed by the Congressional Budget Office.

Second, one proposal maintains $500 million in the CHIP contingency fund after the rescission. This fund will receive an additional $4.5 billion in October. Since the contingency fund was originally enacted in 2009, only $309 million in total has been awarded to states, and $200 million of what the states have already received remains unspent. Put another way: The $500 million left in the account after the rescission would absolutely cover any possible claims.

Third, and most notably, just two years ago Democrats offered their own amendment to rescind $5.7 billion from CHIP that every Democratic member on the House Appropriations Committee voted for.

So let’s boil it down: Instead of returning unspent funds to taxpayers, Democrats want to preserve rescissions to pay for more government spending in annual spending bills. And why? Perhaps it’s to keep a fake, inflated level of CHIP spending on the books that they can use as an “offset” for unrelated government spending sometime in the future.

Or perhaps, their “resistance” movement has become so ingrained in their party that they are simply incapable of conceiving of a world in which they could work with the president on anything.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/maganomics-working-defying-critics/

Last week, calculations of the country’s economic growth for the fourth quarter of 2017 were revised to show a growth rate of 2.9 percent. That revision didn’t get nearly as much attention as when the initial read of that quarter’s growth came in below expectations at 2.6 percent. While we would all like to see faster growth, it is quite an accomplishment that over the first full three quarters of the Trump administration the economy has grown at an annual rate of nearly 3.1 percent.

While many are predicting GDP growth for the first three months of this year may not be as high, we should weigh that possibility against this certainty: the Left, and many in the media, will pounce on any report to throw doubt on not only the health of the American economy, but on the efficacy of President Donald Trump‘s MAGAnomics (Make America Great Again) agenda of tax reform, deregulation,  trade renegotiation and domestic energy independence.

There will be headlines bellowing “slower growth” and a “stalling economy.” Cable news talking heads will breathlessly, and endlessly, opine as to the supposed failure of tax reform and the true health of the economy, all the while hinting (and secretly hoping) that things will soon be much worse.

When they do — and believe me, they will — I encourage you to keep a few things in mind:

Foremost, confidence in the American economy among businesses and consumers is near historic highs. That means businesses, both small and large, and just as importantly, ordinary Americans, have more hope in the future of their jobs, their opportunities, and their own savings accounts.

Secondly, job openings are at a record high and the unemployment rate at 4.1 percent is at its lowest level since the turn of the century. People have stopped worrying about jobs and instead are able to focus on building their careers. A job is important, but a career is a life. And the creativity and productivity a career provides is what makes work enjoyable. As of today, Americans are much more comfortable taking more steps to build their lives.

Lastly, it’s easy to see that most of the left has been wrong about the economy for quite some time now (some of us think they’ve been wrong since Karl Marx’s “Das Kapital” was originally published in 1867.) I certainly remember what they said about our projections for 3 percent GDP. They mocked: “impossible.” They criticized: “There is nothing in policy that would raise the growth rate.” They laughed: “Assumptions are assumptions, but assuming 3 percent growth is just pie in the sky.”

But even with a slow first quarter, things are looking up: the average projected growth rate for the first quarter among four prominent real-time GDP trackers is 2.2 percent — a full percentage point higher than the same quarter last year. That means the economy will have grown by 2.8 percent during the first four full quarters of the Trump administration. That’s dramatically higher than the 1.9 percent the Obama administration told us to expect on their way out the door.

And dramatically higher than the administration even predicted. In our first budget we forecast economic growth would average 2.3 percent over the course of 2017. We achieved an average of 2.6 percent. With the president’s tax cuts just beginning to kick in, we are well on our way to achieving the 3 percent growth we projected in our most recent budget.

After you’ve been in Washington long enough, you start to sense an eerie feel for the place. One of the biggest undercurrents is that things never really change that much. But under President Trump and his MAGAnomics agenda, we’ve been able to restore the fundamental dynamism of the American economy. People are believing in the system again, business owners are no longer afraid of looming red tape, and families are beginning to see new opportunities to invest in their futures.

People, quite simply, are better off than they were the day before the 2016 election. Yes, some of those people work on Wall Street. But many, many more work in factories in Ohio, in construction in Florida, and in small businesses in Wisconsin.

MAGAnomics is a simple formula, you just have to believe in capitalism and work and our people. You have to believe in America. And in Americans. This administration certainly does.

https://www.realclearmarkets.com/2018/02/14/the_popular_notion_that_i039m_039gutting039_cfpb_is_flat_wrong_211793.html

The accusation that I am “gutting” the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is not new. It fits a certain narrative — pushed by people who cannot accept the fact that Donald Trump is president. There is a problem with the claim, however: It is just flatly wrong.

Yes, I mean to change the bureau. This shouldn’t surprise anyone. That’s exactly what happens to every agency when a new administration appoints new leadership. And we’re looking for a lighter regulatory hand: bringing common sense and balance to government regulation is a central tenet of this administration.

Toward that end, I changed the internal structure of our fair lending enforcement and supervision functions. I did that in order to have only one office, not two, that handles enforcement, and only one, not two, that handles supervision.

I also decided to reconsider rules on payday lending. Going unreported: State regulators told the bureau years ago that such rules were unnecessary, as many states had already regulated those businesses.

And in a move that is unprecedented in Washington, I asked for zero dollars to fund our operations. I did that because the bureau had an unnecessary $177 million “reserve fund.” Put another way: We didn’t need the money.

The CFPB is one of the most — if not the most — powerful federal agencies in existence. It is also the least transparent or accountable. As director, I have almost total control over regulations and access to virtually unlimited funds. In some cases I am even judge, jury and executioner. I do not answer to Congress, to the people I regulate, or even to you.

If I am going to run a government agency like that, I am going to do it with humility toward those we serve, prudence in the exercise of our authority and respect for the law. I hope we never see a time when that equates to “gutting.”

https://www.wsj.com/articles/introducing-maganomics-1499899298

If the Trump administration has one overarching goal, it’s to Make America Great Again. But what does this mean? It means we are promoting MAGAnomics—and that means sustained 3% economic growth.

For most of our nation’s modern history, a healthy American economy meant one that grew at roughly 3.5%. That was the average growth rate between the late 1940s and 2007. Since then, it has hardly topped 2%.

The difference between those two growth rates is staggering. If the American economy had grown at only 2% between the end of World War II and 2000, average household income would have been roughly $26,000 instead of $50,000.

Over the next 10 years, 3% growth instead of 2% will yield a nominal gross domestic product that is $16 trillion larger, federal government revenues $2.9 trillion greater, and wages and salaries of American workers $7 trillion higher.

For merely suggesting that we can get back to that level, the administration has been criticized as unrealistic. That’s fine with us. We heard the same pessimism 40 years ago, when the country was mired in “stagflation” and “malaise.” But Ronald Reagan dared to challenge that thinking and steered us to a boom that many people thought unachievable. In the 7½ years following the end of the recession in 1982, real GDP grew at an annual rate of 4.4%. That is what a recovery looks like, and what the American economy is still capable of achieving.

The focus of MAGAnomics is simple: Grow the economy and with it the wealth of, and opportunity for, all Americans. It does that by focusing on fundamental principles that made the U.S. economy the greatest engine of prosperity in the history of the planet:

Tax reform. We need to boost productivity. Fundamental to that is encouraging capital investment. We’ve seen for decades that growth in private-sector jobs correlates to growth in private business investment. When businesses invest in new plants and equipment, they tend to hire more people, who produce more. Lower tax rates and faster cost recovery are two levers that will reduce the cost of capital and thereby help ignite economic growth. And since 70% of business income goes to wages, the benefits flow to workers as well.

Curbing unnecessary regulation. Much like commonsense tax reform, rolling back unnecessarily burdensome regulations will reduce the cost of doing business. When regulations increase costs, they decrease returns, leaving less capital to invest. If they are too burdensome, they discourage any investment at all, as businesses choose to forgo opportunities. This is important to all business, but especially to capital-intensive sectors like manufacturing. Overly zealous environmental regulations have played a role in pushing many U.S. businesses overseas. Requiring realistic and fact-based cost-benefit analyses of regulations will help protect both the environment and American jobs.

Welfare reform. Growth also depends on the size of the workforce. Although the labor pool is aging, we are also seeing people who could be working but are staying home. We badly need them to go back to work. We believe that most want to do this but simply lack the opportunity. Our welfare system often creates disincentives for people to seek work. We intend to change that. We need to reform welfare to ensure it helps those truly in need of it, but does not encourage people to stay home.

Smart energy strategy. The president’s “all of the above” energy strategy expands the economy’s growth potential. Yes, it puts coal miners back to work. But cheaper, cleaner, more abundant energy will also increase investment and employment across dozens of industries, from chemicals to automobiles. By ensuring reliable supplies and stable prices, the president’s energy plan will reduce uncertainty, especially in the manufacturing sector, thereby reducing the risks associated with building new plants and hiring more American workers.

Rebuilding America’s infrastructure. The president’s plan to rebuild America’s infrastructure will create immediate job opportunities. More important, it will boost the long-term productivity of American industry. Rebuilding roads, bridges, airports and ports will pay dividends both now and in the future.

Fair trade for America. The president is right in that the U.S. is frequently abused when it comes to international trade. Ensuring that other nations do not undermine our economy by unduly taxing our products, by dumping products here, or by stealing our intellectual property is essential to our economic future.

Government spending restraint. When government spends a lot, it takes money away from private investment. And private investment is always a more efficient allocator of capital than government. We will continue to fund critical government functions, including a social safety net that gives people the comfort of knowing they will not be overlooked while encouraging them to be more willing to take chances. But we will watch every dollar to minimize waste. We will, in short, seek to take from you only what government actually needs to function.

MAGAnomics is for everyone, but especially for those who left for work this morning in the dark but came home after their kids were asleep. It’s for those who are working part-time but praying for a full-time job. It’s for folks whose savings are as exhausted as they are. This president hears you. He knows America’s greatness doesn’t spring from higher taxes or unnecessary regulations or broken welfare programs. It doesn’t come from government at all. It comes from you.

If we enact the president’s broad agenda—if MAGAnomics is allowed to work—we will have set the stage for the greatest revival of the American economy since the early 1980s. It will remind people—including those who have forgotten, or those who don’t want you to remember—what a great America means. That is driving everything we do.

https://www.miamiherald.com/opinion/op-ed/article152074727.html

This Tuesday, the president will release his Fiscal Year 2018 budget request. The title on the cover reads “A New Foundation for American Greatness.” But it’s what’s inside that’s more important. What people will see there is something that has been missing from Washington for a long time: “A Taxpayer First Budget.”

It starts with two principles. First: our government works for the American people, not the other way around. Second: our government must be more efficient, more effective and more accountable to the hardworking taxpayers who fund it.

For the first time in nearly a decade, the president has done what every American family or business does each day: balance the books. If Congress follows the president’s plan, our military will be dramatically modernized, our borders will be secure, our laws will be enforced, parents will have more options at schools and the chance to stay home with their newborns-and the budget can still be balanced within the next 10 years.

That is the “new” part of the budget. Because for the past eight years, Americans have been forced to work harder for longer with less money in return. Yet the previous administration mistreated and disrespected those hard working taxpayers, and instead of an accountable government, gave them out of control spending and an incredibly massive federal debt.

Such poor stewardship threatens generations of American prosperity. The previous administration’s economic policies resulted in a near doubling of the national debt, hitting levels that we have not seen since shortly after World War II. This is not a sign of a robust and thriving economy, but of a stagnant nation in malaise.

While our national debt has soared, our economic growth has soured. An “average” healthy American economy grew at 3.5 percent between the late 1940s and 2007. For the last nine years, our economy grew at a staggeringly disappointing 1.3 percent. This budget stands for the proposition that a stagnant America is not the “new normal.” To admit that, or to even suggest it, as the previous administration did and its supporters still do, is to allow a pessimism about this country that President Trump absolutely rejects.

America must do better. And the “foundation” of the budget provides a detailed and specific roadmap on how to do that. It combines overall spending restraint with a rebalancing of the money to spend on new priorities.

For years, we’ve focused on how we can help Americans receive taxpayer-funded assistance. Under President Trump’s leadership, we’re now looking at how we can respect both those who require assistance and the taxpayers who fund that support. For the first time in a long time, we’re putting taxpayers first.

Taking money from someone without an intention to pay it back is not debt. It is theft. This budget makes it clear that we will reverse this larceny. The president’s budget will put our country’s budget back into balance.

Finally, the “American Greatness” part of the budget is you, the folks who work hard and pay taxes. This budget is for you. It is your government’s — your new government’s way of thanking those of you who are working two jobs, saving for your kids’ education, or working to buy a home or start your own business. We cannot express our gratitude and respect enough for what you do to make your families, your communities, and this nation work. Americans are the hardest working people who have ever lived. We worked hard to build this country together and will work hard to restore this country together.

So if you left for work this morning in the dark, if you came home after your kids were asleep, if you feel lucky to get overtime pay to support your aging parents or adult children, if you’re working part-time but praying for a full-time job, if your savings are as exhausted as you are, you have not been forgotten. This budget was written for you. This president hears you. And America, because of you, will be great again.

https://www.hattiesburgamerican.com/story/opinion/2017/03/24/trump-budget-security-first/99530026/

I am proud to introduce the “America First” budget.

While recognizing this blueprint is not the full federal budget, it does provide lawmakers and the public with a view of the priorities of the president and his administration.

The federal budget is a complex document. However, working for a president committed to keeping his promises means my job is as simple as translating his words into numbers.

That is why you will find here a familiar focus on rebuilding and restoring our nation’s security. Under the Obama administration, our shrinking military has been stretched far too thin. The military has been forced to make aging ships, planes and other vehicles last well beyond their intended life spans.

The president will reverse this dangerous trend. From rebuilding our armed forces to beefing up our border security and safeguarding our nation’s sovereignty, this budget makes security priority one.

It does so while meeting another of the president’s core commitments: addressing our nation’s priorities without sending future generations an even bigger credit card bill.

This 2018 budget blueprint will not add to the deficit. It has been crafted much the same way any American family creates its own budget while paying bills around the kitchen table; it makes hard choices.

The president’s commitment to fiscal responsibility is historic. Not since early in President Reagan’s first term have more tax dollars been saved and more government inefficiency and waste been targeted. Every corner of the federal budget is scrutinized, every program tested, every penny of taxpayer money watched over.

Our $20 trillion national debt is a crisis, not just for the nation but for every citizen. Each American’s share of this debt is more than $60,000 and growing. It is a challenge of great stakes, but one the American people can solve. American families make tough decisions every day about their own budgets; it is time Washington does the same.

https://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2015/01/16/term-limits-would-bring-needed-change-to-congress

IN THE FIRST CENTURY B.C., when he was still just a general, Julius Caesar attempted to secure governance over all of Gaul. The nobility and the public alike were indignant about the perceived overreach, but many in the Roman Senate were intimidated into not speaking. Cato was silent. So was Cicero. But one aged senator named Considius did show to voice his objection. When asked how it was that he had the nerve to speak while others hid, the old man replied that age was his guard against fear. Simply put, he knew that Caesar could do very little to him that would not soon happen anyway. 
It seems that lawmakers can enjoy a certain freedom – the ability to “do the right thing,” perhaps – when they know they cannot return to office. And while for old Considius, who was actually a senator for life, the driving factor was old age and the inevitable end that follows, for modern elected officials the (considerably less fatal) analog is term limits. 

There are all sorts of arguments in favor of term limits. They range from the idealistic – an appeal to the philosophical purity of the citizen lawmaker – to the more banal – limits as penalties levied against members of an institution that enjoys an approval rating in the teens on a good day. 
However, there is a simpler and more practical consideration: Do Americans want lawmakers considering matters of long-term political advancement when addressing critical issues in the present? For example, the federal debt is a problem now, and fixing it will require difficult decisions today. For a lawmaker to act on the issue with the thought of obtaining a committee chairmanship six years from now is not conducive to addressing the problem now. Indeed, it may do the opposite. 

The arguments against limits are familiar but not compelling: They deny lawmakers the time necessary to learn a complex system; they empower staff and lobbyists; they preclude choices in elections; they ultimately deprive the government of talented people. 
The first two points could be solved by making government simpler. Congress could focus on doing fewer things better, thus making government easier to manage and denying special interests avenues for influence. As for election choices, there are precious few of those available anyway, after gerrymandering and the power of the establishment parties have been brought to bear. 

It is the argument regarding highly capable public servants, however, that actually provides insight on how well term limits can – and do – work. That is because congressional lawmakers – more specifically, House Republicans – already have a form of term limits. Twenty years ago, the GOP-led Congress adopted a rule that set six-year limits for committee chairmen. Because of that rule, Wisconsin Republican Rep. Paul Ryan, for example, will take over the House Committee on Ways & Means this year. While the person he replaced was certainly talented, the quality of the leadership has not declined in the slightest. 
To the contrary, the House GOP benefits from limits on chairs. Our caucus gets what another new committee chair, Utah Rep. Jason Chaffetz, correctly described recently as “some new fresh thinking.” As Chaffetz put it, “Turnover is good.” 
Indeed, so it has been for millennia. House Republicans have figured out that change can be good, at least in part. Now all that’s needed is to convince others – and ourselves – that all Congress could benefit from such treatment.