https://www.miamiherald.com/opinion/op-ed/article221038435.html

They hold a parade of hypocrisy every year about this time in the United Nations General Assembly.

Cuba sponsors a resolution blaming the island’s poverty, repression, and lack of freedom on the United States economic embargo. The resolution doesn’t help a single Cuban family. It doesn’t feed a single Cuban child. It doesn’t free a single Cuban political prisoner. But virtually every country still votes for it – last year only the United States and Israel stood in opposition.

This year, the United States did something different. We gave the UN the opportunity to actually do something about the horrendous human rights conditions in Cuba. We offered a series of amendments that affirmed the Cuban people’s right to speak freely; their right to not be imprisoned for their political beliefs; and their right to the fruits of their labor, among others.

The resulting vote was a prime example of why the American people are deservedly reluctant to send their tax dollars to the United Nations.

Only three nations out of 193 supported affirming the human rights of Cubans. No doubt, many of the countries who voted in opposition thought they were poking the United States in the eye. But all they were really doing is proving, once again, the necessity of continued U.S. leadership on human rights in Cuba – because no else will do it. When the UN had the opportunity to show its own leadership, it refused to take it.

The Castro dictatorship denies the Cuban people the most basic human rights and freedoms. Uncooperative journalists and opponents of the regime are arrested and even killed. The Cuban economy is rigged in favor of the ruling elite. The Cuban government has the absolute authority to restrict travel inside Cuba and to determine who gets to leave.

Each year, many countries acknowledge this lack of freedom, even as they vote blindly for a resolution that absolves the dictatorship of any responsibility for it.

Last year, the European Union – whose members supported the Cuban resolution – nonetheless called on the Cuban government to “fully grant its citizens internationally recognized civil, political and economic rights and freedoms, including freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and free access to information.”

Multiple UN regional groups representing a majority of countries in the world also expressed concern for the promotion of Cuban human rights. They called on the dictatorship to fulfill the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, a list of the benchmarks of freedom and human rights necessary for countries to thrive.

The language of the United States’ amendments was taken directly from these expressions of support for human rights. In some cases, the amendments repeated other countries’ statements word-for-word. But when these countries had the chance to make their support for human rights in Cuba actually matter by putting it in a resolution, they refused to take it. The European Union dodged the issue by abstaining. Many countries that supported human rights for Cubans during debate on the resolution actually turned around and voted against the amendments.

The unfortunate thing is not that the United States was left, once again, standing virtually alone on behalf of human dignity at the United Nations. To the contrary. We are proud to buck the mob when it comes to the principles we believe in.

The really unfortunate result of this UN charade is that the Cuban people were once again abandoned by an organization that is supposed to advocate for human rights.

Thankfully, the United Nations does not have the power to end the United States embargo. That power belongs exclusively to Congress and the American people. But the United Nations has a big megaphone. It has the unique ability to send a moral message to the Cuban dictatorship on behalf of the entire world. That it refused to do so should give Americans cause to re-examine the limits of what we might expect from the UN.When the United States withdrew from the UN Human Rights Council in June, critics argued that this represented a retreat from America’s commitment to human rights. That argument was entirely wrong at the time, but this week’s voting at the UN provides the clearest evidence of why. In Cuba, and in the face of many similarly corrupt and barbaric governments around the world, the United States stands as a human rights beacon when most other countries refuse to.

In the absence of a world message of support, the United States reiterates its message to the people of Cuba: We will continue to stand with you until the day comes when we can stand together as free peoples in our shared neighborhood.

http://www.poconorecord.com/news/20180913/opinion-when-i-challenge-president-i-do-it-directly

We have enough issues to deal with in the world, so it’s unfortunate to have to take time to write this, but I feel compelled to address the claims in the anonymous “resistance” op-ed published this week in the New York Times. The author might think he or she is doing a service to the country. I strongly disagree. What this “senior official in the Trump administration” has done, and is apparently intent on continuing to do, is a serious disservice- not just to the president but to the country.

I, too, am a senior Trump administration official. I proudly serve in this administration, and I enthusiastically support most of its decisions and the direction it is taking the country. But I don’t agree with the president on everything. When there is disagreement, there is a right way and a wrong way to address it. I pick up the phone and call him or meet with him in person.

Like my colleagues in the Cabinet and on the National Security Council, I have very open access to the president. He does not shut out his advisers, and he does not demand that everyone agree with him. I can talk to him most any time, and I frequently do. If I disagree with something and believe it is important enough to raise with the president, I do it. And he listens. Sometimes he changes course, sometimes he doesn’t. That’s the way the system should work. And the American people should be comfortable knowing that’s the way the system does work in this administration.

What this anonymous author is doing is very dangerous. He or she claims to be putting the country first, and that is the right goal. Everyone in government owes a greater loyalty to our country and our Constitution than to any individual officeholder. But a central part of our democracy requires that those who work directly for the president not secretly try to undermine him or his policies. What the author is describing is an extra-constitutional method of addressing policy disputes within the administration. That’s wrong on a fundamental level.

If the author truly is a senior administration official, then he or she has the kind of access to the president I described. If that is the case, this official has ample opportunity to try to persuade the president to change course. If the author is frustrated by an inability to persuade the president, then he or she is free to resign.

By making sweeping, but mostly unspecific, anonymous claims, the author creates many problems. Taking this course sows mistrust among the thousands of government workers who do their jobs honestly every day. It unfairly casts doubt on the president in a way that cannot be directly refuted because the anonymous accuser’s credibility and knowledge cannot be judged. It encourages U.S. adversaries to promote their hostile claims about the stability of our government.

What’s more, by throwing gas on a fire of endless distraction, the author and the frenzied media reaction to the op-ed have hurt all of us trying to do our jobs for the country.

Dissent is as American as apple pie. If you don’t like this president, you are free to say so, and people do that quite frequently and loudly. But in the spirit of civility that the anonymous author claims to support, every American should want to see this administration succeed. If it does, it’s a win for the American people.

As a former governor, I find it absolutely chilling to imagine that a high-ranking member of my team would secretly try to thwart my agenda. That is not the American way. It is fundamentally disloyal, not just to the chief executive, but to our country and our values.

To Mr. or Ms. Anonymous, I say: Step up and help the administration do great things for the country. If you disagree with some policies, make your case directly to the president. If that doesn’t work, and you are truly bothered by the direction of the administration, then resign on principle. There is no shame in that. But do not stay in your position and secretly undermine the president and the rest of our team. It is cowardly, it is anti-democratic, and it is a disservice to our country.

https://www.cnn.com/2018/09/09/opinions/systemic-corruption-and-security-nikki-haley/index.html?no-st=1536601521

On December 17, 2010, one young man took a stand against corruption, and changed the course of history. Mohamed Bouazizi, a 26 year-old fruit vendor in Tunisia, set himself on fire to protest the harassment he faced from government officials, who confiscated his products and kept him from making a living.

Bouazizi's tragic act of desperation touched a deep chord. People were fed up living under a dictator who treated his country's treasury like his own personal bank account. A month later, Tunisia had risen up, and the reign of Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali was over. Shortly thereafter, protests broke out across the Middle East, and the Arab Spring had begun.
All too often, we think of corruption as a low-level problem -- like the cop that demands a bribe to let someone off, or the bureaucrat who demands an extra "tip" before granting a permit.
But corruption goes far beyond a few individual bad actors. In too many places, the state exists mostly to enrich the ruler and a tiny circle of cronies at the top. When that happens, just like Tunisia in 2010, the effects can be dramatic.
Regimes that appeared stable can suddenly crumble when corruption fuels popular uprisings. That was true for Viktor Yanukovych in Ukraine, who stole billions of dollars before the people declared enough was enough. The same sentiment toppled regimes in Kyrgyzstan, Egypt, Libya, and Yemen.
In all of these cases, protests took the world by surprise. They grew faster and had far more powerful consequences than anyone expected.
In other places, corruption allows extremist groups to expand and find new recruits. Boko Haram, a terrorist organization that has committed unspeakable atrocities, especially against women and children, began in part because of popular frustration against widespread corruption in Nigeria. The Taliban have exploited similar frustrations in Afghanistan. Both countries have made important strides against corruption, but once again, corruption was a key factor contributing to violence.
Why every American should pay attention to Nicaragua
Why every American should pay attention to Nicaragua
The scale and sophistication of these corrupt networks is staggering. South Sudan is one of the world's poorest countries, where the government has completely failed its people. I visited South Sudan and met with some of the victims of the country's horrific civil war. I heard from mothers who had been raped by soldiers, and even from children who had been forced at gunpoint to murder their parents. The war in South Sudan has displaced 1.7 million people and caused nearly 2.5 million people to flee the country.
Amid all this suffering, you might wonder how the government gets the money to pay all these troops and keep the war going. Once again, it comes back to corruption.
According to a detailed report from The Sentry, a groundbreaking initiative to track the money that funds atrocities in Africa, South Sudan's leaders misuse the nation's oil to fund this barbaric violence. One document showed that the government's Ministry of Petroleum and Mining spent more than $80 million to pay off politicians and military leaders involved in the war. This money flowed straight to militias that carried out atrocities on the ground.
The pattern is plain for anyone to see. Corruption spurs revolutions, enables extremist groups and fuels civil wars. Combating corruption is not just about good governance, it's about maintaining peace and security.
When people come together to protest corruption in their countries, we need to pay special attention. That's because as we have seen, the ramifications can be vast, and change can come faster than anyone expected.

Consider what is happening in Iran, Venezuela and Nicaragua today. In all three countries, people have taken to the streets to condemn their leaders' squandering of resources that should belong to the people.
The officials who run Iran's Revolutionary Guards also run their own businesses, abusing their official positions to enrich themselves. In Venezuela, cronies of President Maduro systematically loot their country's oil wealth, depriving ordinary Venezuelans of the most basic food and medicine. In Nicaragua, students infuriated with abuses of power committed by President Daniel Ortega have spent months standing up to demand change. Corruption is the driving force that is bringing people out into the streets.
The United States is determined to shine a spotlight on these connections between corruption and international peace and security. On September 10, as part of the US presidency of the UN Security Council, I will convene the first-ever Security Council meeting that will focus on corruption and its consequences for conflict around the world. Later that day, I will also convene a meeting dedicated to corruption in Venezuela, where Security Council members will hear firsthand about how Venezuela's leaders have profited at the expense of their people.
Corruption isn't an easy subject to bring to the UN. For self-protecting reasons, many governments would prefer not to discuss it. But as a country that leads the way in uncovering corrupt networks and holding those responsible to account, we want to ensure this issue gets the attention it deserves. The sooner we recognize that corruption and insecurity go hand in hand, the more effective we will be both at ending conflict and stopping it before violence breaks out in the first place.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/07/united-nations-report-on-american-poverty-distorts-and-misrepresents/

It is unnecessary, politically biased, factually wrong, and a waste of U.S. taxpayer dollars.
Last month, the United Nations released a report about poverty in America. A single researcher spent two weeks in our country, visiting four states, Puerto Rico, and Washington, D.C. His report was harshly critical, condemning America for “punish[ing] those who are not in employment,” among other farcical notions.

Everyone knows there is poverty in America. Thousands of public officials at the federal, state, and local levels of government attempt to address poverty, as they should. Thousands more nonprofit, charitable, and religious organizations honorably dedicate themselves to fighting poverty in our country.

As governor of South Carolina, I saw firsthand the struggles of poor communities that often lack the economic and educational opportunities enjoyed elsewhere in America. And we did something about it. During my administration, we brought record-breaking numbers of new jobs to South Carolina, spanning each one of our state’s 46 counties; moved thousands of citizens from welfare to work; and made unprecedented investments into the education of students in economically challenged parts of our state. The fight against poverty is a complicated, multi-dimensional battle, but it is one that has the attention of Americans at all levels.

It certainly has the attention of the Trump administration. Its economic policies have helped bring unemployment down to the lowest level in decades. Its tax-reform law included a landmark measure to direct billions in new capital into distressed communities in every state.

But as the United States ambassador to the United Nations, my job is to help protect American interests and tax dollars at the U.N. It is patently ridiculous for the U.N. to spend its scarce resources — more of which come from the United States than from any other country — studying poverty in the wealthiest country in the world, a country where the vast majority is not in poverty, and where public and private-sector social safety nets are firmly in place to help those who are.

Instead, the U.N. might have studied poverty in the Congo, where 60 percent of the entire population lacks the basics of food and electricity. Or Burundi, where the typical annual income is $280. Or Venezuela, where narco-state dictators have driven a once prosperous country into the ground with an inflation rate over 25,000 percent, and where diseases that were once thought eliminated are now reappearing.

When there are many dozens of countries where poverty consumes most of the population, and where corrupt governments deliberately make the problem much worse, why would the U.N. study poverty in America? The answer is politics.

Take a closer look at what the U.N. report says we should do about poverty. It reads like a socialist political manifesto of higher taxes, government-run health care, and “decriminaliz[ing] being poor” (never mind that nowhere in America is it a crime to be poor).

The report also distorts and misrepresents the facts about poverty in America in ways that a biased political opponent might. For example, it states that 18.5 million Americans live in “extreme poverty” and 5.3 million live in “Third World conditions of absolute poverty.” In fact, these numbers fail to incorporate the vast majority of welfare assistance provided to low-income households, such as food stamps, Medicaid, and refundable tax credits. The report also exaggerates poverty by excluding pension and Social Security assets from its calculations. The truth is that America’s median household income has hit record highs. Wages have risen faster under President Trump for low- and middle- income earners than for high earners. And for the first time on record America now has more job openings than unemployed workers.

Unsurprisingly, Senator Bernie Sanders has strongly embraced this U.N. report. Senator Sanders criticized my comment that the report was “patently ridiculous.” But when the U.N. takes sides in an American political debate and shifts resources from truly needy countries to prosperous ones, I fully stand by my characterization. All the more so when it’s largely American tax dollars that are paying for it.

In the past year and a half, the United States has cut almost $800 million from the U.N. budget by eliminating wasteful and duplicative spending. This is important because while America is just one of 193 countries at the U.N., we pay about one-quarter of the entire U.N. budget. When the U.N. wastes American tax dollars, like it did on this unnecessary, politically biased, and factually wrong report, we’re going to call it out for the foolishness that it is.

https://www.thelily.com/nikki-haley-an-entire-generation-of-children-in-south-sudan-is-being-lost-to-violence/

A child born the year South Sudan achieved independence will be 7 this year. She has no memory of her country at peace. Odds are, violence has driven her from her home. She is malnourished. She has likely never been in school. If she is sheltering in a U.N. Protection of Civilians site, more likely than not, her mother has been a victim of rape or assault.

For nearly five years, the world’s youngest country has been at civil war. I often hear people say we should be patient and wait for the elites who started the war to come to peace on their terms. But the children of South Sudan cannot wait.

Violence has displaced more than 4 million people in South Sudan, and some 2 1/2 million have fled to other countries. Nearly two-thirds of the refugees are children. Tens of thousands are dead. Seven million South Sudanese need humanitarian assistance.

Nothing prepares you to hear the firsthand accounts of extreme violence suffered by women and children. I listened to their stories when I traveled to South Sudan last year to visit one of the United Nations’ largest peacekeeping missions and relief operations.


At the Protection of Civilians site, I lost count of the number of women who told me they had been raped, their husbands had been shot or their children had been stolen before they fled to safety.

Armed men have separated thousands of young boys from their parents and forced them to fight as child soldiers. Even child soldiers who manage to escape may never fully recover from what they have seen and been forced to do.

In one horrific case recounted to me, two brothers were forced to watch as fighters gang-raped their mother. Afterward, the fighters made the brothers shoot her. They permitted the brothers to stop shooting only after their mother had died — killed by her own sons. This story is difficult to retell, but not sharing it denies the reality a generation of children live with as the conflict persists.

In 2015, after nearly two years of civil war, South Sudanese President Salva Kiir signed a peace agreement with Riek Machar, who was Kiir’s first vice president at the time and the leader of the armed opposition. It collapsed within months.

For the past year, a regional forum led by Ethiopia has offered a chance at peace. The parties agreed to a cease-fire in December, only for violations to occur within hours. The latest round of talks concluded on May 23 with no agreement. After much hard work from Ethiopia and goodwill from the international community, the conflict continues. Something has to change, and it has to change now.

The United States has supported South Sudan since the beginning. American taxpayers have invested more than $11 billion there since its independence. But we have lost patience with the status quo. We must change course if we are to save a generation of South Sudanese and give them hope for a better future.


It is long past time the U.N. Security Council imposed an arms embargo on South Sudan. This concrete measure can save lives. Rather than continue to hold meetings, the United States is calling on our colleagues on the Security Council and our partners in the region to act.

By depriving their fighters of weapons and ammunition to wage war, an arms embargo will help convince the warring parties that there is no military solution to this conflict. Above all, an arms embargo is a humanitarian measure: It will decrease the availability of weapons, slow violence and alleviate suffering.

Sanctions on those who continue to destabilize South Sudan represent another critical tool at the Security Council’s disposal. By imposing financial and travel restrictions on individuals responsible for threatening the peace, we can ensure they pay a cost for perpetuating violence. Only then can we begin to change the calculus of those who profit from war.

What I saw and heard during my trip made me angry. The experience of observing children displaced by the fighting stays with me as a mother.

Why should we care? Because these children are growing up to be uneducated, unskilled and resentful adults. That should concern us all.

The leaders of South Sudan are responsible for protecting these children, and they have failed them. We have no more time to waste on empty promises. The international community must come together to do what South Sudan’s leaders will not: take action to restore hope to the world’s youngest country.

https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/opinion/nikki-haley-united-nations-iran.html?rref=collection%2Fsectioncollection%2Fopinion

Last week, the United Nations published a report with news a lot of people don’t want to hear. A panel of experts found that Iran is violating a United Nations weapons embargo — specifically, that missiles fired by Yemen’s Houthi rebels into Saudi Arabia last year were made in Iran.

The mullahs in Iran don’t want to hear this news, because it proves Iran is violating its international agreement. Die-hard defenders of the Iran nuclear deal don’t want to hear it because it proves, once again, that the Iranian regime can’t be trusted. And some members of the United Nations don’t want to hear it because it is further proof that Iran is defying Security Council resolutions, and the pressure will be on the U.N. to do something about it.

Yemen is the scene of the world’s worst humanitarian crisis today. After three years of brutal civil war, 75 percent of the population is in need of humanitarian assistance. The government has virtually ceased to exist. Terrorist groups like the Islamic State and Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula are exploiting that lawlessness to pursue their barbaric agendas.

The U.N. report reveals much more than just the Iranian sanctions violation. It charges the anti-government Houthi rebels with not only launching ballistic missiles into Saudi Arabia but also using the people of Yemen as human shields and kidnapping Yemeni children to fight in the war.

At the same time, the report notes that Saudi restrictions on imports of civilian goods into Yemen worsened the suffering there. Saudi Arabia is now working to address this through a new Yemen humanitarian aid plan. We welcome its engagement with the United Nations to try to address the humanitarian crisis, and urge it to do more.

But the report, for all its bad news, should be welcomed by those who wish to prevent the conflict in Yemen from becoming a direct, major confrontation in the Middle East. By confirming that Iran is the source of the missiles and other weaponry fired into Saudi Arabia, the U.N. panel has given the world a chance to act before a missile hits a school or a hospital and leads to a dangerous military escalation that provokes a Saudi military response.

It is imperative that we seize this opportunity. Iranian missiles have already come close to hitting civilian targets in Saudi Arabia. Last November, Houthi militants fired a missile at a major civilian airport outside Riyadh. Fortunately, the missile fell short of its target. But, as this newspaper reported, it detonated so close to the terminal that it caused people inside to jump out of their seats. And the debris it left scattered around the airport had Iranian fingerprints all over it.

In December, the United States and our partners took the extraordinary step of declassifying evidence from this missile attack, as well as from other attacks by missiles, conventional arms and explosive boats of Iranian origin — all used by the rebels in Yemen and all violations of U.N. resolutions.

In a warehouse in Washington, we put on display recovered pieces of the missile fired at the Riyadh airport, with its telltale nine valves running the length of it and lack of large stabilizing fins, proof of its Iranian manufacture. Some of the missile remnants on display were stamped with the logo of Shahid Bagheri Industries, an Iranian manufacturer. Based on the strength of this and other evidence, our intelligence community concluded unequivocally that the weapons had been supplied by the Tehran regime. As I said at the time, they might as well have had “Made in Iran” all over them.

The U.N. report agrees with our intelligence, and it makes an additional, critical finding. When we first unveiled our evidence last year, some skeptical observers questioned whether the Iranian weapons had been transferred to Yemen before the imposition of the U.N. arms embargo in April 2015. The new U.N. report makes it clear that the weapons were introduced into Yemen after the arms embargo was imposed, putting Iran in undisputed violation of the United Nations resolution.

No one, in truth, should be surprised by these findings. Since the signing of the nuclear agreement, the Iranian regime’s support of dangerous militias and terror groups has markedly increased. Its missiles and advanced weapons are turning up in war zones all across the Middle East. And Houthi militants continue to fire them into Saudi Arabia, including in December, January and this month.

The world can no longer claim ignorance or skepticism of Iran’s role in fomenting instability in the Middle East. To acknowledge the Iranian origin of missiles falling on Saudi Arabia is not, as some charge, to lay the groundwork for war. Far from it. It is a necessary prerequisite for preventing war.

Today, armed with this evidence, we have the chance to rein in Iran’s behavior and demand that it live up to its international agreements that discourage conflict. But if action is not taken, then someday soon, when innocent Saudi civilians are killed by Iranian weapons, the chance for peace will be lost.

https://www.weeklystandard.com/nikki-haley/we-will-remember

To its shame, the United Nations has long been a hostile place for the state of Israel. Both the current and the previous secretary generals have objected to the U.N.’s disproportionate focus on Israel. It’s a wrong that undermines the credibility of this institution, and that in turn is harmful for the entire world.

I’ve often wondered why, in the face of such hostility, Israel has chosen to remain a member of this body. And then I remember that Israel has chosen to remain in this institution because it’s important to stand up for yourself. Israel must stand up for its own survival as a nation, but it also stands up for the ideals of freedom and human dignity that the United Nations is supposed to be about.

Standing here today, being forced to defend sovereignty and the integrity of my country—the United States of America—many of the same thoughts have come to mind. The United States is by far the single largest contributor to the United Nations and its agencies. .  .  . But we’ll be honest with you. When we make generous contributions to the U.N., we also have a legitimate expectation that our good will is recognized and respected. When a nation is singled out for attack in this organization, that nation is disrespected. What’s more, that nation is asked to pay for the “privilege” of being disrespected.

In the case of the United States, we are asked to pay more than anyone else for that dubious privilege. Unlike in some U.N. member countries, the United States government is answerable to its people. As such, we have an obligation to acknowledge when our political and financial capital is being poorly spent.

We have an obligation to demand more for our investment. And if our investment fails, we have an obligation to spend our resources in more productive ways. Those are the thoughts that come to mind when we consider the resolution before us today.

The arguments about the president’s decision to move the American embassy to Jerusalem have already been made. They are by now well known. The decision was in accordance [with] U.S. law dating back to 1995, and its position has been repeatedly endorsed by the American people ever since. The decision does not prejudge any final status issues, including Jerusalem’s boundaries. The decision does not preclude a two-state solution, if the parties agree to that. The decision does nothing to harm peace efforts. Rather, the president’s decision reflects the will of the American people and our right as a nation to choose the location of our embassy. There is no need to describe it further.

Instead, there is a larger point to make. The United States will remember this day in which it was singled out for attack in the General Assembly for the very act of exercising our right as a sovereign nation. We will remember it when we are called upon to once again make the world’s largest contribution to the United Nations. And we will remember it when so many countries come calling on us, as they so often do, to pay even more and to use our influence for their benefit.

America will put our embassy in Jerusalem. That is what the American people want us to do, and it is the right thing to do. No vote in the United Nations will make any difference on that.

But this vote will make a difference on how Americans look at the U.N. and on how we look at countries who disrespect us in the U.N. And this vote will be remembered.

