https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/press-briefing-principal-deputy-press-secretary-raj-shah-051418/

Obviously, this is part of a very complex relationship between the United States and China that involves economic issues, national security issues, and the like.  And it’s an issue of high concern for China that’s been raised with the U.S. government and with our administration at various levels.  So the President has asked Secretary Ross to look into it consistent with applicable laws and regulations.


Well, he’s asked Secretary Ross to look into the matter, again, consistent with applicable laws and regulations.  And it’s been brought up at a number of levels, you know, as part of bilateral talks on a number of issues.  So I wouldn’t restrict it to just the talks that you’re referencing.


It’s part of, again, the U.S. relationship with China, which is complex.  It has economic factors; it has national security factors.  This is just one of many factors.  And, again, the President is asking the Secretary of Commerce to look into the matter consistent with laws and regulation.


Well, I understand the focus on this issue, but it’s going to be dealt with, and has been dealt with internally.  I was told —

Hang on.  I was told Kelly Sadler called the McCain family late last week and did apologize.  And beyond that, I don’t have further comment.

Well, I wasn’t on the call.  I was told she made it prior to the story being published, and she apologized for the comment.  She apologized directly to the family.

Well, I think we’re concerned about all sorts of matters, but this is an internal matter, it’s being addressed internally.  And I don’t have anything further to add.

Obviously, if I explain all that, then it won’t remain internal.

She is still an employee here at the White House.  She came to work today.

She has addressed it with the family directly, and I don’t have anything further to add.

Well, I don’t think this has, frankly, any bearing on the President’s campaign promises.  Let’s just look at the overall economic record, right?  The President has overseen an economy in which we have the lowest unemployment rate since 2000; it’s at 3.9 percent.  Over 2 million jobs have been created since this President took office.  And with respect to trade with China, he’s been tough.  Let’s put this in a context.  I mean, this President has taken China to task for its unfair trade practices.  Through this Section 301 investigation, he’s introduced and proposed over — or rather, up to $150 billion of tariffs on China for intellectual property theft, dumping, and a range of inimical Chinese economic action.

So he’s been tough and he’s confronted them.  But on this issue specifically, he’s asked the Secretary of Commerce to take a look at it.


Well, we believe that Hamas is responsible for these tragic deaths; that their rather cynical exploitation of the situation is what’s leading to these deaths.  And we want them to stop.

No, we think that we shouldn’t lose sight of the fact that Hamas is the one that, frankly, bear responsibility for the dire situation right now in Gaza.

I don’t think it hurts the peace plan.  The peace plan will be introduced at the appropriate time.  But what today is about is following through on what the President promised and believes.  And it’s also a recognition of reality.  I think we’ve, for decades, walked on eggshells, pretending that Jerusalem isn’t the capital of Israel when it obviously is.  And this is just a recognition of reality.


I don’t want to get ahead of negotiations, but our policy has been to pursue the complete, irreversible, and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, and that’s going to be the purpose of the June 12th meeting.

Well, I think the President’s rhetoric has reflected Kim Jong-un’s actions.  I think that Kim Jong-un has stepped forward and made pledges to halt nuclear tests, halt ICBM tests, and now has released these three prisoners.  And those are signs of good faith, and we hope to build on that.


We believe that Hamas is responsible for what’s going on.

What I’m saying is that we believe that Hamas, as an organization, is engaged in cynical action that’s leading to these deaths.


Well, again, the matter is going to be addressed — has been addressed internally.  But what I will say is that when you work, in any work environment — you with your colleagues at NBC, or elsewhere — if you don’t — if you aren’t able, in internal meetings, to speak your mind or convey thoughts or say anything that you feel without feeling like your colleagues will betray you, that creates a very difficult work environment.  I think anybody who works anywhere can recognize that.

Again, I’m not going to address it any further.  It’s been —

She called the McCain family.  I’m not going to address it anymore from the podium.

Look, this is not about my opinion or anybody else’s opinion.  It’s an internal matter, and we’ve addressed it internally.

Well, I can’t obviously get ahead of the meeting.  But look, the Department of Justice is engaged in certain litigation regarding sanctuary cities in California.  We believe that California should help us, and all municipalities and states should help the federal government in enforcing federal law, in helping to deport — when appropriate — criminal, illegal immigrants, and help, I guess, stem the tide of illegal immigration in the United States.  It’s actually on the rise now.  It’s a point of frustration for the President and for the administration.  So that will be part of, obviously, what’s discussed.

I’m saying that I’m not going to get ahead of the meeting.

Well, obviously you’ll have to ask senators what they’ll ask him.

I think he will be discussing the administration’s agenda.  I think a focus of that will be on appointees and getting the President’s team in place, particularly Gina Haspel, who we believe should be confirmed as the next CIA Director.

This is an individual who’s had over three decades of exemplary service and experience with the CIA.  And we hope that the Senate takes it upon themselves to confirm here.

It’s to talk about the administration’s agenda, broadly.

I’ll have to refer you to the Trump Organization.

And you’re asking — but you’re asking about a private organization’s dealings that may have to do with a foreign government.  That’s not something that I can speak to.

Again, that’s an internal matter and has been addressed internally.

I honestly, I don’t know if he was invited.  I just honestly don’t have more for you on that.

Well, I honestly don’t know how that came to be.  And I know that Pastor Jeffress has had a strong relationship with many people in the faith community, as well as folks in the administration, and Republicans on the Hill, and others, and I believe Democrats as well.  So I think that he has a longstanding involvement with public officials.  You know, beyond that, I don’t really have a whole lot to add.

I haven’t seen those remarks, but obviously those aren’t remarks that the President agrees with.

No — the President has asked Secretary Ross to look into the matter, consistent with —

The issue has been raised at many levels by the Chinese government with the various levels of our administration.

Well, it’s a significant issue of concern to the Chinese government.  And in our bilateral relationship there’s a give-and-take and we discuss these issues.

Well, I think that — you know, I think that the President wants the United States to be tough on terrorists, wants our government to be tough on terrorists.  I haven’t asked him about that specific tweet, but I think his thoughts on how to address terrorism are pretty clear, both through a legal system, through our international — through our foreign affairs policy.  So just understanding the existential threat that terrorists pose to American citizens and addressing it accordingly.

Well, as I said earlier, we believe Hamas bears the responsibility.  Look, this is a propaganda attempt.  I mean, this is a gruesome and unfortunate propaganda attempt.  I think the Israeli government has spent weeks trying to handle this without violence, and we find it very unfortunate.

Again, we believe that Hamas is responsible for this.  Blake.

I haven’t asked him about that.  But again, he has asked the Commerce Department to look into this matter consistent with applicable laws and regulations.

Well, I think Secretary Ross speaks for the U.S. government on this matter.  And the President has asked him to look into it.  I haven’t seen those remarks, and I’m sure there will be some follow-up conversation, but he does reflect our view.

No, we don’t.  Look, the peace plan will be brought forward at the appropriate time.  It can be evaluated on its merits.  But the actions today, both the opening of the embassy in Jerusalem and these tragedies in southern Israel, we don’t think will impact the peace plan.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/press-briefing-principal-deputy-press-secretary-raj-shah-03262018/

Well, I can speak for only the White House, and I can say, categorically, and obviously, the White House didn’t engage in any wrongdoing.  The campaign or Mr. Cohen —

Yeah.  The campaign or Mr. Cohen can address anything with respect to their actions.  With respect to that interview, I will say the President strongly, clearly, and has consistently denied these underlying claims.  And the only person who’s been inconsistent is the one making the claims.


Well, I think there was a statement coming out from the Press Secretary on this.  And the last sentence basically outlined our approach to this, which is our relationship with Russia is, frankly, up to the Russian government and up to Vladimir Putin and others in senior leadership in Russia.

We want to have a cooperative relationship.  The President wants to work with Russia, but their actions sometimes don’t allow that to happen.

The poisoning in the UK that has kind of led to today’s announcement was a very brazen action.  It was a reckless action.  It endangered not just two individuals who were poisoned, but many civilians — many innocent civilians.  And this is not the type of conduct that the United States or allies can accept.  But the President still remains open to working with the Russians on areas of mutual concern — counterterrorism, for example, and others.  But, you know, that’s really up to the Russians to decide.

Well, he raised a number of issues and we did secure with Putin, on that call, some positive interaction when it comes to nuclear arms.  So there were certainly positive developments on that call, and the President will continue diplomacy with Russia and with Putin.  But, you know, this action by the President is very clear.  We’re very heartened that it comes in conjunction with over a dozen allies, both in NATO and EU.


Well, we’ve been joined at the hip with the UK on this matter.  We stand firmly with our ally.  Again, I’ll classify this action as both brazen and reckless.  And I don’t want to get ahead of anything the President may or may not announce or declare later on.


You know, I’m not going to get into what the President may or may not have seen.  I’ll just say that he’s consistently denied these allegations.


Well, the President doesn’t believe that any of the claims that Ms. Daniels made last night in the interview are accurate.

Well, he just doesn’t believe that — you know, there’s nothing to corroborate her claim.

Yeah, I believe he did.

I don’t have any additional information on it.


Well, I’m — again, I’m not going to get into what he saw.  There are clips of it playing all over in the morning new shows.  What I’ll just say is that he’s denied the accusations that she made last night and has been consistent in doing so.  She has not.

Well, I mean, actions like this take time and we coordinated with, again, over a dozen allies.  We wanted this to be a joint effort in which the United States is joining both the European Union and NATO Allies.

Look, we want to work with Russia, but this type of an action cannot be tolerated.  The United States is responding to Russia’s action — as I called it, brazen and reckless.  So this is a U.S. response.  We want to work with Russia.  You know, the ball is in their court with respect to how they want to respond.

Well, the United States has issued sanctions on key Russian oligarchs in response to the meddling in the 2016 election.

So, I wouldn’t close any doors or I wouldn’t preclude any potential action.  But the President doesn’t telegraph his moves.

Look, the President does respect everyone’s First Amendment right and wants their voices to be heard.  As you mentioned, there were actions that he signed into law on Friday in the omnibus bill.  They included over $2 billion in new funding for school safety.  He signed into law the STOP School Violence Act which was, actually, a priority of the Sandy Hook Promise Organization; and the Fix NICS bill, the background check portion that you mentioned.

Also on Friday, the Department of Justice announced a new rule which effectively banned the sale of bump stock devices.  And the President is a strong believer in the Second Amendment, but he does believe other measures could potentially be taken both at the federal and also at the state level to improve school safety.  He’s mentioned hardening schools.  He’s talked about these extreme risk protective orders that states can engage in.  So there’s a whole lot of things that can be done.

This Wednesday, the School Safety Commission that is chaired by Secretary DeVos will be meeting for the first time, and we hope some fruitful ideas can come from that.

I have no personnel announcements to make at this time.

Well, I would have Michael — you can have Michael Cohen address any specifics regarding this agreement that you’re referring to.  But, look, false charges are settled out of court all the time, and this is nothing outside the ordinary.

Again, false charges are settled out of court all the time.  You’d have to ask Michael Cohen about the specifics.

Well, that will be up to the President.

Well, you know, we can’t confirm those reports.  We don’t know if they’re necessarily true.  What I’ll just state, though, is that, you know, where we are with North Korea is in a better place than we used to be because the President’s maximum pressure campaign, in conjunction with dozens of countries around the world, has paid dividends and has brought the North Koreans to the table.  So we’re looking forward to a potential summit some months in advance.

Again, I have no personnel announcements to make at this time when it comes to —

Guys, I have no personnel announcements.


Well, I can’t confirm that.  What I can tell you is that the President has been pretty clear since January, where he gave some remarks about this, what he thinks of the Iran deal.  In fact, that goes back years.  He thinks it’s one of the worst agreements the United States has ever made internationally, and he is insistent on changes both at the congressional level working with Congress, and also with our European partners.  If changes aren’t made, the President is prepared to potentially withdraw from the agreement.


Again, we have no announcements on a potential meeting or any kind of summit.

Yeah.  Again, as I said, we want to work with Russia.  We have areas of mutual concern where we can work with them.  Again, I mentioned counterterrorism.  There’s general global stability and other matters where we can — we want to work with Russia.  But that ball is in their court.  It is up to them on whether we’re going to have a fruitful and constructive relationship or an adversarial relationship.

Well, again, there’s no meeting to announce.


Well, the President outlined on Friday why he was very frustrated with the legislation that he was given.  It was a massive spending bill handed to him at the eleventh hour.  You know, spending by Congress hasn’t really been executed properly since 1996.  They haven’t had individual spending bills for over two decades.

And so this omnibus process, the President wants to reform.  He’s talked about ending the filibuster.  He’s talked about a line-item veto.  Obviously, it has to pass constitutional muster — anything that’s passed.  But he wants to fix the budget process.  And, you know, his message to leaders in Congress of both parties is that if something similar happens again, he’s much more inclined to veto it.

Well, there are certain things being discussed with respect to House and Senate rules.  I don’t want to get ahead of anything that we may come out in favor of.

Well, I’m not aware of a White House conversation with Senator Barrasso.  I haven’t spoken to him.  You know, I would generally agree with the concept.  But having not seen all the details, I don’t want to commit to it.

I don’t have any call plans to read out to you.

Well, I haven’t asked the President about it directly, today.  So I don’t want to comment on it too specifically.

Yeah.  Well, this was a coordinated effort, and the President spoke with many foreign leaders — our European allies and others — and encouraged them to join the United States in this announcement.

We think that this is not just an important message to send to the Russian government, but it’s also significant in degrading their intelligence capabilities around the world, not just in the United States.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/press-briefing-principal-deputy-press-secretary-raj-shah-020818/

Good afternoon, everyone.  I want to start with a statement, and then we’ll take your 
Our normal policy, consistent with the policies of past administrations, is to not comment on background checks and security clearances.  Given the unusual nature of these circumstances and a number of false reports floating around, we wanted to try to explain as best that we can, within our security limitations, how the background investigation process works, and then talk a little bit about Rob Porter and how his situation fits within that process.
The background investigation process is the process for evaluating allegations about a White house staffer’s conduct prior to joining the White House.  It’s run by the federal law enforcement and intelligence communities.  It’s used throughout the U.S. government.  It’s thorough, it’s complex, and it takes time.  It takes time because we want to get it right.  It’s also costly, but it’s absolutely worth it.
Over the course of any investigation, some information may arise that seems troubling or complicated, and requires additional investigating.  It’s important to allow that process to continue in order for a fulsome understanding of the information.
The whole U.S. government takes this process seriously.  It’s not politicized or interfered with, but we do not push — we do push for — we do push to obtain accurate, fulsome information as quickly as possible.
Now let me talk about Rob Porter.  The allegations made against Rob Porter, as we understand them, involve incidents long before he joined the White House.  Therefore, they are best evaluated through the background check process.
It’s important to remember that Rob Porter has repeatedly denied these allegations, and done so publicly.  That doesn’t change how serious and disturbing these allegations are.  They’re upsetting.  And the background check investigates both the allegations and the denials.  The investigation does not stop when allegations comes to light.  It continues to determine the truth.
We should not short-circuit an investigation just because allegations are made, unless they could compromise national security or interfere with operations at the White House.  The truth must be determined.
And that was what was going on with Rob Porter.  His background investigation was ongoing.  He was operating on an interim security clearance.  His clearance was never denied, and he resigned.
To summarize, the allegations against Rob Porter are serious and deeply troubling.  He did deny them.  The incidents took place long before he joined the White House.  Therefore, they were investigated as part of the background check, as this process is meant for such allegations.  It was not completed, and Rob Porter has since resigned.
During his time at the White House, Rob received no waivers and no special treatment.  And this is the tried and true process.  It was followed meticulously.
We hope this helps explain how seriously these matters are taken and how the process works to investigate such allegations.
Well, I know there’s been some reports about the Chief of Staff.  He became fully aware about these allegations yesterday.
I’m not going to get into the specifics regarding who may have known what pieces of information because they were all part of an ongoing background check investigation.

Well, I think we all became aware of the news reports that emerged on Wednesday morning and some of the graphic images.

Again, I’m not going to get into the specifics.

Well, I think what I just referenced.  The reports had additional allegations; they had more information.

There were a number of statements from the Press Secretary, from the Chief of Staff, and from others that reflected the Rob Porter that we’ve come to know working here for over a year, and the Chief of Staff for about the last six months.  But the reports are troubling, and I think the statement from Wednesday night reflects the Rob Porter that we had seen in these news reports and some of these credible allegations.

Yeah, and it’s the full nature of the allegation, particularly the images.

Look, again, I’m not going to get into the specifics of the investigation itself.  I think that’s a 

Well, again, this is part of an ongoing investigation.  We trust the background check process.  And the Chief of Staff does not get detailed updates about what may or may not have been alleged.
This is a process; it involves a thorough investigation.  And as I went through the process, it involves looking at not just accusations but denials.

Well, Rob Porter was terminated yesterday and his last day —

His last day was yesterday.  I know he came in earlier to clear out his stuff.

He offered his resignation and it was accepted.

I think the second statement that he sent out reflected his thoughts, which is that these allegations are deeply troubling, they are shocking.  And I think the first statement reflected the Rob Porter that we have known.

I think it’s fair to say that we all could have done better over the last few hours — or last few days in dealing with this situation.  But this was the Rob Porter that I and many others have dealt with, that Sarah dealt with, that other officials, including the Chief of Staff, have dealt with.  And the emerging reports were not reflective of the individual who we had come to know.

No.  The President saw the news report on Tuesday night and was informed of the resignation on Wednesday.  He was saddened by it.  You know, saddened for all the individuals involved.

He was not informed about specifics regarding Rob Porter’s security clearance.

I got into the security clearance process as much as I’m allowed to discuss it, and I’m not going to go further.

Not very seriously.  Omarosa was fired three times on the “Apprentice” and this was the fourth time we let her go.  She had limited contact with the President while here.  She has no contact now.

I think that we’ve looked at the things that are necessary to ensure a smooth transition.  There will be a new acting Staff Secretary that we can name later on, and operations can continue smoothly.

Well, I think the President wants to see legal immigration reform.  He wants to see us move from a process that currently exists in law of extended-family chain migration toward merit-based immigration reforms.  We want to ensure that people coming into the country are the best and the brightest, regardless of nationality, creed, religion, or anything else in between.  We want to look at educational backgrounds, ability to contribute to the workforce in a way that helps American workers.  So the President wants to see reforms that improve America’s economy.

The process tends to be a little bit different with the White House because there’s a lot of officials coming in with the new administration, and a lot of individuals coming in have an interim clearance.

I don’t think any standard applies.  I just think that we do take allegations of misconduct, of domestic violence, other issues like that very seriously.  We are very concerned about them.
In this instance, in the case of Rob Porter, we relied on the background check investigative process.  That process hadn’t been completed, so we were relying on the information that we had.

Well, I do know, for instance, that he had not seen images prior to the statement on Tuesday night.

I’m sorry, say that again.

Again, I’m not going to get into the specifics of what may have emerged from the investigation.

I understand.  I’m saying, specifically, on images.  I don’t have every single detail, and I’m not going to get into every single specific.  We relied on a process.  This is a process used throughout the U.S. government.  It’s a process used by every agency for an individual seeking a security clearance.
Rob Porter was never denied a security clearance.  He was never given any special treatment.  The process was still ongoing.  We relied upon it.

March 5th is the deadline.

When you say “they haven’t done anything,” what do you mean?

Well, we fully expect Congress to take action on the President’s immigration reform framework.

I don’t know, specifically, why those specific offices may have been closed.  But look, I did talk to the President earlier today.  He told me he was very saddened by these reports and by the information that he saw, by the images that he saw.  We do take violence against women and these types of allegations very seriously.
It would, yes.

He is concerned about spending in Washington.  He’s expressed that for years.
Let me just say off the bat, we do support the two-year spending bill that is being discussed and voted on in the House and Senate.  You know, it lifts the caps on defense spending, which is something that the Secretary of Defense, the President’s generals have told him that they need to ensure that we rebuild our military and protect our national security.
With respect to deficits, no.  We’re going to be releasing a budget on Monday.  The budget does move us toward a path of restoring fiscal responsibility.  It reduces our deficit by trillions of dollars.  I’m not going to get more specific; you guys will get more on Monday.  But it does incorporate these budget caps, it incorporates the tax bill, incorporates our other priorities.  So we do think that that budget will outline the path to our fiscal responsibility.

Economic growth is essential to cutting deficits and to restoring fiscal responsibility.  Again, the budget will outline a lot more detail.

Well, I’m not going to get into the specifics, but I would say that all the statements were crafted by a number of senior White House officials.

You know, I think you’ve got to take allegations seriously.  You’ve got to take denials seriously.  And again, the statements reflected our experience with Rob Porter and other officials’ experiences with Rob Porter.
But again, looking at more of the reporting and looking at more facts emerging, you saw the Chief of Staff’s statement, and the White House did accept his resignation.

Well, I don’t think — now that he’s been terminated, I don’t think it continues.  But I can get back to you on the specifics.

I know that any issues regarding his security clearance weren’t made available to the President prior to Tuesday.


The President has confidence in his Chief of Staff, Counsel, and Communications Director.

Well, I’d refer you to Treasury on the specifics.  I know that some of those numbers have more to do with the previous administration’s accounting than it has to do with this administration’s policies.  But I would say that we are committed to fiscal discipline, and the budget next week will show that in greater detail.

Well, again, understand that the background investigation was not completed.  There was no determination made about Rob Porter’s security clearance.  There was not a thumbs up or thumbs down.  There was no denial of his security clearance.  He was operating off an interim clearance.  That is the clearance that many individuals who have never had a security clearance would get when they first come to the White House.
With respect to allegations made, again, every allegation has to be investigated.  Any denial has to be thoroughly and fully investigated.  We allow that process to play out.

On Tuesday night, when there was a report issued.

I just mean the process by which your employment status ends is termination.

Well, again, I’m not going to get into a tick-tock and all these detailed specifics.  I think a lot of individuals were involved with the White House response to this, myself included.  And I think a lot of us could have done better.

No.  He resigned and we accepted his resignation.

He was surprised.  He, like many of us, did not see that in Rob Porter, did not see what these allegations have brought forward.  And so he was surprised by it, he was disheartened by it, and he was saddened by it.

Well, the review process is ongoing.  And we have said previously, we’re using the same standards and the same process by which the Republican-drafted memo was evaluated that was voted out of the House Intelligence Committee.  It’s going through both a legal and national security review.
The President — you know, I think we’ve previously mentioned — the President was briefed by the Deputy Attorney General the other day.  When we have more information and an announcement, we’ll make that available.

I can’t get into that.

I have no personnel announcements.

Well, the President, like the rest of the White House, is concerned about long-term economic indicators and factors.  And the fundamentals, in terms of the long term, are very strong.  Again, unemployment and the labor market are very strong.  Unemployment is at 4.1 percent.  We saw wages rise on Friday for the first time — not for the first time, but at a measurable level, for the first time in nearly eight years, or nine years.  And corporate earnings are high.
And we believe that these long-term fundamentals demonstrate a healthy economy.

Well, first off, I’m not going to get ahead of anything the President may consider.  We don’t telegraph, and the President doesn’t telegraph his potential actions.
But our strategy with respect to North Korea is denuclearization.  It’s to provide as much economic and political pressure on that regime that would end its nuclear program.  And we’ve had a considerable amount of success over the last year pursuing that strategy.  We’ve had dozens of countries reduce economic or diplomatic ties with North Korea.  Trade with North Korea, with countries in the region, has been reduced.
We continue to apply as much pressure — maximum pressure — on the regime.  And as the Secretary of Defense said, we keep all options on the table, but the path we obviously would prefer is diplomatic.

Well, the President was involved and briefed.  I don’t know an answer on Russian engagement, but I can get back to you on that.

I think I’d point you to a number of statements that indicate that the White House was prepared to defend Rob Porter based on initial accusations that we heard about and his denial.  And that was based on our experiences with Rob Porter.  And so, I mean, to answer your 
The Communications Director did recuse herself from some matters concerning it.

Yeah, look, you bring up an issue that the President and others have talked about within the administration about political bias at the FBI and Department of Justice.  And this predates this investigation.  There are a number of issues regarding how the Hillary Clinton email investigation was handled by the former FBI Director and others in the FBI that have raised 
I think we’ll have more information for you later on.
There’s no meetings planned whatsoever.

I’ll have to get back to you on that.
Thanks a lot everyone.

