https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/americans-came-together-response-recovery-power-restoration-irma-maria/

When times are tough, Americans come together. So when Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria struck with terrible force last year, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) came together with the federal family and private sector partners to restore power to those impacted. With the hurricane season upon us again, Americans are ready to rise once more in unison.

The 2017 hurricane season was unprecedented, making the recovery from it particularly challenging. Almost 47 million Americans, or 15 percent of the population, were affected by disasters in 2017 — either hurricanes or wildfires. Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria caused a combined $265 billion in damage, and Hurricanes Irma and Maria packed an especially hard punch — Category 5 storms that swept through the Caribbean just two weeks apart, leaving a trail of catastrophic damage.

Yet as the hurricanes passed, Americans met the challenge. In response to Irma, more than 60,000 workers from nearly 250 investor-owned electric companies, public power utilities, and electric cooperatives joined in the response. In an impressive show of force and compassion, crews came from across the nation — from Washington State and New Mexico to Maine and Michigan and Maryland — to help restore power and people’s lives.

In the U.S. Virgin Islands, DOE deployed emergency responders, some of whom flew in ahead of Irma, to both St. Croix and St. Thomas in support of FEMA. The Department also deployed ten line-trucks from the Western Area Power Administration to help restore the transmission system on St. Thomas. They were joined by a number of crews from the private sector, who continued the work of restoration.

A team from DOE’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory also went to the USVI to perform a power generation assessment, even as DOE continued to work closely with the USVI and private sector partners to see power fully restored to the islands.

Puerto Rico’s situation was considerably more challenging. The one-two punch of Irma and Maria rendered much of the Commonwealth’s transmission and distribution infrastructure inoperable, and left virtually all of Puerto Rico’s 1.5 million electricity customers without power. This was compounded even further by the logistical challenges of moving supplies and personnel to the island, the fact that many of Puerto Rico’s first responders were themselves victims of the storm, and the Commonwealth’s bankrupt utility (PREPA) had long-neglected the electrical grid.

Despite all of those challenges, significant progress was made, especially after Puerto Rico requested mutual aid from the President. As that work proceeded, DOE responders and experts worked closely with the Puerto Rican government and PREPA, federal partners like FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers, and private sector utilities to coordinate and expedite the response.

Many others from DOE also went to Puerto Rico, supporting power restoration as well as the overall government response.

In addition to immediate power restoration efforts, DOE has also looked longer-term to increase Puerto Rico’s grid resilience against future hurricanes. Drawing on the capabilities of DOE’s National Labs, the expertise of the private sector and the interests of Puerto Rican stakeholders, the Department issued a report this past June that offered a range of recommendations for Puerto Rico’s government to consider integrating into its recovery plans.

DOE is also providing grid modeling support to build a more modern and reliable grid system in Puerto Rico. This endeavor will develop a nearly real-time dynamic system model that will be used not only as an operational tool, but also for planning purposes. It will also provide technical insight into resiliency objectives, allowing for coordination and communication of potential solutions across stakeholder groups. As PREPA and the Commonwealth plan financial investments to strengthen Puerto Rico’s power grid and increase disaster resilience, DOE, FEMA, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development will remain supportive partners.

DOE supports Puerto Rico’s goal of an electric sector that is technically reliable, resilient and affordable. Success will ultimately depend on the leadership and commitment of Puerto Rico’s own government and PREPA. They must determine the best strategy for meeting the Commonwealth’s future energy needs.

I’m confident that the future will be bright because whenever storms rage, Americans come together. We came together to recover from last year’s terrible hurricanes. No matter the disaster, we will again unite and build a bright future together.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/american-natural-gas-fueling-worlds-future/

What fuels our future? That’s the question we’re asking this week at the World Gas Conference (WGC), which is being held here in the United States for the first time in 30 years. And the clear answer is American ingenuity and innovation, coupled with freedom and a commitment to developing all of our energy resources.

Thanks to this combination, our country is in the midst of a spectacular period of energy progress. Due to the resulting cascade of technological breakthroughs from the private sector and the federal government, the United States is producing abundant, affordable energy from a wider range of energy sources than anyone ever thought possible, and is using this energy more cleanly and efficiently as well.

Natural gas has been and remains a critical component of the nation’s energy portfolio. In 1988, President Ronald Reagan spoke at the last WGC meeting held in the United States and stressed its importance as an affordable, secure and clean-burning fuel. That year, the United States produced just under 18 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and it accounted for less than 10 percent of our power mix. Last year, the United States produced nearly 29 trillion cubic feet of this fuel, and it was the single largest source of our electricity, accounting for 32 percent all U.S. production. We are now on track to reach record-breaking production levels, and natural gas now makes up nearly one-third of the country’s electricity generation.

It is through low-emission natural gas and other fuel sources that we are expanding our economy, igniting job creation, and protecting our environment. What’s more, United States energy-related carbon emissions hit a 25-year low in 2017, a fact that can be directly linked to increased natural gas use for power generation.

The United States is now producing enough natural gas and other fuels to be on the verge of energy independence. This positive development is untying the hands of our elected leadership, and enabling it to conduct foreign policy in a way that advances this Nation and its allies’ interests.

We now have such an abundance of natural gas that, for the first time in six decades, we have become a net natural gas exporter. Today, there are two liquefied natural gas export facilities operating in the United States and another four under construction, plus ongoing expansion work.

We are already selling our natural gas to nearly 30 nations on five continents. Among these nations is India, which has entered into two long-term supply contracts with the United States’ Sabine Pass and Cove Point export facilities and plans on increasing its number of LNG import terminals from four to 15. This partnership prompted the creation of the United States-India Strategic Energy Taskforce this spring, and together our two countries remain committed to increasing energy security and facilitating energy innovation.

Poland, meanwhile, is the beneficiary of the reliability and affordability that American LNG offers thanks to a long-term supply contract with Sabine Pass. The storage of American natural gas will help Poland strengthen its overall energy security and resiliency through an expansion of its fuel source imports.

Yes, America is sharing its energy bounty with the world. And in so doing, we are empowering our friends, allies, and trading partners economically and energy-wise as well. This gives us the opportunity to share not only our energy but the technology and the know-how that unleashed our bounty in the first place. And that includes ways of making energy sources cleaner.

America’s energy success story has the power to encourage others to choose a similar path.

Across the world, there are billions of people who have never experienced the modern miracle of electricity and live in countries that are struggling to grow economically and free themselves of poverty and want. Imagine the good we can do by providing every willing nation with the tools to develop their own energy resources as responsibly as we have.

With American natural gas leading the way, we are not only advancing our energy and economic security, but our national security as well.

The most vital fuel of all, though, is not found in the ground but in us. So long as we support that great fuel of innovation, the future will remain bright indeed for American energy, America’s economy, and America’s position abroad.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/rick-perry-the-truth-about-american-sniper-chris-kyle.print

Despite the high regard in which Americans have held the military for generations, there is a lot about the military that those who haven’t served don’t quite understand.

Veterans speak a language peppered with acronyms like DD-214, jargon like “watch your six “ and recollections of shared hardship that can leave others scratching their heads.

That gap of understanding between the protected and their protectors is typically bridged by mutual respect, but can also be a gutter in which liars and character assassins slither.

The most recent snake to peek its head up from the muck is a writing team for a leftwing publication whose only knowledge of the military was likely acquired while Googling derogatory slogans to scrawl on protest signs.

In a stunning display of inadequate research, slanted interpretation of valid data and some overly dramatic language, The Intercept, little more than a click-hungry website, took aim at the reputation of a bona fide American hero. Unfortunately, more mainstream publications lofted their accusations into the national consciousness with little thought.

The guiding premise of the article was that Chris Kyle, known to a grateful nation as its best-ever sniper in multiple combat zones, was a liar. The writer’s assertion is that Kyle laid claim to more medals than the military had awarded him for his valor in combat. At issue was a disparity between Kyle’s account in his book, “American Sniper,” records obtained from a seemingly indifferent Navy through a Freedom of Information Act request and Kyle’s official DD-214. The first mentioned two Silver Stars and five Bronze Stars, the Navy recalled one Silver Star and 3 Bronze Stars and the DD-214 credited him with TWO Silver Stars and SIX Bronze Stars.

If there is any inaccuracy in Kyle’s account it’s that he didn’t take ENOUGH credit for his awards.

As any veteran will tell you, a DD-214 is THE definitive record of a person’s time in the military, used to prove the authenticity, duration and character of said service.  The official name for the form is Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty and veterans learn early on to keep a copy handy. In separation briefings, service members are carefully coached to review it thoroughly because, once it’s filed, it’s filed.

This article is part of a disturbing trend in the left-leaning press to undermine the heroism of men and women who are willing to risk their lives in the defense of our nation’s freedom.

My good friend, Marcus Luttrell, known to many as the Lone Survivor for his experiences on a hilltop in Afghanistan, has also been a target of similarly unscrupulous reporting.

For Viet Nam-era veterans, this casually gleeful character assassination is an unpleasant reminder of a time when our military was attacked and undermined by critics on the left.

Perhaps it’s a byproduct of nearly eight years of an arch-liberal in the Oval Office combined with an American population increasingly disconnected from the men and women who serve in the military.

I hope all of us will take a moment on this week of Memorial Day to seek understanding and take action that honors one of our nation’s great warriors.

I am calling on people of conscience to join me in calling for the retraction and deletion of the offending article and reprimand of the Navy personnel who have fed this misperception with their lackadaisical handling of the original information request. Both also owe an apology to Taya, Chris Kyle’s loving widow, and to service members, past and present, for disparaging one of their own.

This request might seem odd from someone who is committed to the constitutional freedoms our military fights to defend, but freedom of speech and deliberate libel are two entirely different things.

To honor the memory of an American hero, the latter cannot be tolerated.

https://www.cnn.com/2018/05/03/opinions/invest-supercomputer-technology-opinion-perry/index.html

Technology is easy to take for granted, but it has an incredible impact. Computers, for instance, are commonplace, but they give us extraordinary capabilities. And we may only be seeing the beginnings of their potential.

Imagine a computer that can determine the appropriate medical treatments on a personalized basis. Imagine a computer that can predict extreme weather events like hurricanes with acute accuracy, enabling quicker and more effective responses.

What you're imagining is a supercomputer -- and this imagination is fast becoming a reality.
I have the privilege of overseeing the Department of Energy's (DOE's) 17 national laboratories -- or what I like to call our country's "crown jewels" of science and innovation -- which house some of the most significant computing resources and supercomputers in the world.
Each day, DOE's supercomputers are being used to explore fundamental scientific questions and address some of our nation's most complex challenges.

But while we used to lead the world in supercomputing, the United States has recently slipped in the rankings of the world's fastest machines, falling behind systems from China, Switzerland and Japan.
We cannot continue to fall behind. The advances and innovations that top supercomputers can bring -- to say nothing of their importance to America's security and economic prosperity -- are far too valuable to miss out on. I know we have the brainpower and resources to succeed. We just need the will to do it.
I'm convinced of that, and the Trump administration is committed to it.
That next generation is exascale supercomputers.
That's why earlier this year, I authorized the deployment of the first US exascale system at Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) in Illinois. By 2021, it is expected to come online, making it the fastest and most powerful supercomputer in the world.
To be clear, exascale systems are capable of at least a billion-billion calculations per second, which means they are 10 to 20 times faster than the world's fastest supercomputer today and 50 to 100 times more powerful than the fastest computer in the United States.
So, the jump to exascale would be like going from a flip phone to the latest smartphone or from dial-up to 4G internet speed.
And we are committed to expanding the use of exascale systems. We recently announced a request for proposals of up to $1.8 billion for the development of two new exascale computers to be deployed between 2021-2023 at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. This RFP also envisions the possibility of upgrading Argonne's exascale system -- ranging from small, cosmetic upgrades to the restructuring of certain computational aspects of the new supercomputer.


The completion of these systems will help the United States reassert itself as a global leader in high-performance computing. They will also enable medical breakthroughs that have the potential to be life-changing.

One such example is in the area of precision medicine, or the ability to tailor medical treatments for individual patients based on their unique genetic, environmental or historical variations. To create precision medicines, however, requires the analysis of enormous amounts of data. For instance, a typical cancer study requires more than 8 million measurements from a single tumor. We need faster computers to process this amount of data, which is where the DOE's systems come in.
For instance, researchers at ANL, in conjunction with the National Cancer Institute, have developed the CANcer Distributed Learning Environment (CANDLE) program to accelerate cancer research and to ultimately tailor treatment plans for individual patients.
Another example is DOE's Advanced Computational and Translation Initiatives for Veterans -- or ACTIV program. Working with the Department of Veterans Affairs, ACTIV seeks to use DOE's fastest supercomputers to analyze our vast sets of veteran's medical data in order to optimize their treatments and improve their health outcomes. Those studies could benefit all other Americans, too.

However, as Dr. Geoff Manley from University of California, San Francisco recently told me, that time is often of the essence in medical treatments, and at current computing levels, processing this complex brain imaging takes days to complete. This is not clinically actionable. But with exascale computers, the same process could be accomplished in two and a half minutes.

Now, if you're an oncologist or someone suffering from cancer, would you rather know your treatment options in 2 ½ minutes or 2 ½ weeks?
If you're a veteran suffering from a traumatic injury, would you rather know the most effective treatment in 2 ½ minutes or 2 ½ weeks?
That's why we cannot fall behind in supercomputing. That's why we must push ahead into exascale. In medicine and health, in discovery and innovation, we have the opportunity to build new systems which will truly improve our nation.

https://www.charlestoncitypaper.com/charleston/rick-perry-proposes-to-make-washington-inconsequential/Content?oid=3834344

The central question Republicans must consider in this election is whether we will settle for something less than we want, and something less than America needs.

I have great respect for my fellow Republican candidates. Each is sincere in the belief that Washington is broken, and any one of them would be an improvement upon our current president.

But if we replace a Democratic insider with a Republican insider, what will truly change in Washington besides the party in power?

This election, we don't have to settle for Washington and Wall Street insiders who supported the bailouts and the Obamacare individual mandate. We don't have to passively accept the edicts of an establishment that gave us earmarks, deficits, and a limitless debt ceiling. We don't have to elect a candidate who would allow Iran to be armed at the expense of Israel, and ultimately America.

I offer voters a clear choice. I am the limited-government conservative in this campaign that will give Washington the complete overhaul it needs.

It starts by creating a part-time, citizen Congress like our founders intended. We should cut their pay in half, cut their time in Washington in half, and send them home to get jobs like everyone else. It's time for members of Congress to start living under the laws they pass with the people they represent. And because a president must lead by example, we should also cut the president's pay in half until the federal budget is balanced.

I will break Washington's spending addiction and balance the budget with real spending reductions. My plan permanently bans corporate bailouts, because taxpayers should not have to pay exorbitant bonuses to the Wall Street executives who defrauded them. And it will get rid of earmarks, which have become the crack-cocaine of Congress.

Last week, President Obama provided a clear-cut example of Washington's dysfunctional mentality. Five months after the disastrous debt ceiling hike, he asked Congress to raise the ceiling by another $1.2 trillion. And make no mistake: Some of our own leaders will view this as nothing more than another horse to trade.

This is why we cannot ask an insider to overhaul Washington — because insiders are born of a corrupt establishment culture.

Republicans can choose among various insiders who have spent 63 years in Congress driving up the debt and voting for earmarks, or pick a governor who has signed six balanced budgets, cut state spending, and worked with private sector leaders to create one million jobs.

I offer voters a chance not only to vote their conservative values, but to vote for a candidate with a proven record of putting those values to work in public office. I am a fiscal conservative who has cut state spending, passed sweeping lawsuit reforms, and worked to create the best job creation environment in the country. And I am a social conservative who has defended traditional marriage and protected unborn children, including signing a budget that defunded Planned Parenthood and shut down 12 of their clinics in Texas.

As an Air Force veteran, I know America is an exceptional land. Despite our present economic circumstances, I truly believe our best days are yet to come — if we elect the right leadership.

I am a conservative of conviction, not of convenience. The values that guide me are the same values I learned growing up on the family farm. I won't back down from a fight, and I am not afraid to step on a few toes in order to overhaul Washington.

I will be the anti-establishment outsider who goes to Washington with a sense of purpose, and that purpose is to make Washington as inconsequential in your lives as I possibly can.

https://www.forbes.com/2008/10/09/rick-perry-energy-biz-energenius08-cx_rp_1009perry.html#4171fa8d60e3

Any sane energy plan must close the gap between supply and demand by increasing and diversifying the former and decreasing the latter. With more than 23 million citizens and a huge share of big-company headquarters, Texas definitely needs more power every day.

Texas is certainly known as a top petroleum producer (including years of safe, effective offshore drilling), but we're also the nation's leader in installed wind energy and in the permitting process for 9,000 more megawatts of nuclear-generated electricity.

Our state's competitive business climate is spurring innovations in high-potential areas like non-food-based biofuels, clean coal and transferring semiconductor technology into solar applications. I also hope a Texas company or university comes up with the best way to store wind-generated energy to compensate for variability in the supply.

In short, we're taking an all-of-the-above approach to our energy challenges and intend to retain our position as a leader in this area.

http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2791112/posts

Two of the biggest challenges facing the United States are getting people back to work and becoming less dependent on foreign oil from hostile countries.

Unfortunately, the President’s rigid belief that stimulus spending could create private-sector jobs has failed and left us with higher unemployment and skyrocketing debt. His energy policies undermine America’s security by making it more difficult for entrepreneurs and private employers to produce domestic energy resources.

Instead of developing proven U.S. oil and gas resources, Washington has curtailed energy exploration. The Gulf of Mexico restrictions alone have cost up to 12,000 jobs and forced drilling platforms to relocate to other countries.

America needs energy and more jobs. Our economic and national security depend on it. That’s why later this week I will unveil a plan to energize job creation across the country and help make America more energy secure and less dependent on foreign oil from hostile countries. This plan is the first phase of a broader economic strategy I will reveal in the near future, and it requires no congressional action, only the strong executive leadership of a President.

As President, I will bring an “all-of-the-above” strategy to increasing our energy production, using all of our natural resources — conventional and renewable, on-shore and offshore, including oil, gas, wind, solar, coal and nuclear. I will begin by immediately authorizing the release of some federal lands and waters for energy development, so we can start creating good jobs in the energy sector as soon as possible.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2015/09/grand-alliance-against-terror-rick-perry/

No words can do justice to the memory of the 2,988 people who died on September 11, 2001, including eleven unborn children and the citizens of over 90 countries. On this day especially, we pray for the safety of our nation’s first responders, who carry on the legacy of service exemplified by those who gave their lives to save others. And we salute those sons and daughters of America who volunteered to don the uniform of our country, to ensure that something like 9/11 could never happen again.

In the years since 9/11, we have asked much of those who have served our country. I’d like to share with you one such story of sacrifice, the story of Marc Alan Lee.

Marc had dreams of becoming a professional soccer player. In 1997, he was scheduled to try out for Colorado’s major-league team, the Colorado Rapids. But Marc blew out his knee. So instead he decided to major in Bible and theology at The Master’s College in California. In 2001, Marc joined the Navy and earned a spot with the SEALs. On August 2, 2006, Marc was killed in Ramadi, Iraq.

Ramadi, the capital of Anbar province, the center of Sunni Iraq, had been home to many senior officials in Saddam Hussein’s government — especially senior military officials. By 2006, after the American-led coalition reclaimed Fallujah, Ramadi had become the center of the Sunni terrorist insurgency. Our generals knew that if we could clear Ramadi of insurgents, we would be on our way to defeating al-Qaeda in Iraq.

But clearing Ramadi would not be easy. It required fierce block-by-block street fighting. At one point, one of Marc Alan Lee’s brothers on SEAL Team 3, Ryan Job, was shot by a sniper. Marc single-handedly braved direct fire from the enemy in order to give his teammates the cover to evacuate Ryan from the battlefield. In the process of doing so, Marc was fatally shot.

Marc’s sacrifice in Ramadi helped deliver a crucial victory to the people of Iraq. Ordinary Sunnis came to believe that Americans would stick by them, and one by one they found the courage to fight the terrorists in their midst. This courage became known as the Anbar Awakening. The surge worked. Americans, Iraqis, and our allies stabilized the country.

This was the Iraq that was handed to President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton in 2009: not perfect by any means, but a place where the sacrifices of men like Marc Lee produced a hard-won stability, making it harder — but not impossible — for radical Islamic terrorists to threaten our shores.

Obama and Clinton never understood that. They believed al-Qaeda in Iraq had been permanently defeated. In 2011, before Iraq was ready to stand on its own, Obama and Clinton allowed negotiations with the Iraqi government to collapse, and pulled American troops out of the country. “After nearly nine years, America’s war in Iraq will be over,” bragged the president. “We’re leaving behind a sovereign, stable, and self-reliant Iraq,” he told the troops at Fort Bragg.

Enough of making it up as we go along, of having no strategy to deal with our enemies other than giving in to them.

But Iraq hadn’t yet become self-reliant, and our enemies had not gone away. Two months after Marc and his brothers retook Ramadi, al-Qaeda in Iraq and its allies announced that they were disbanding and reconstituting themselves as a new group: the Islamic State in Iraq.

When Obama and Clinton pulled out, they abandoned the courageous Sunnis in Anbar who had helped us defeat al-Qaeda in Iraq. The president dismissed ISIS as a “jayvee team [putting] on Lakers uniforms.” But a weakened ISIS took advantage of Obama’s ignorance and naïveté to recruit our former allies to their side. ISIS told them: “Obama has abandoned you. The Shiites in Baghdad have abandoned you. Either fight with us, or be killed.”

Today, ISIS isn’t merely comprised of wild-eyed Islamic terrorists. Its military leadership comes from some of the most sophisticated and experienced commanders in Saddam Hussein’s old army. Last year, ISIS captured Fallujah. Four months ago, they retook Ramadi. Today, they control a swath of territory as large as Indiana.

No big deal, says the Obama administration. When a reporter asked the president what his plans were for defeating ISIS, he said, “We don’t have a strategy yet.” When a U.S. general was asked about the fall of Ramadi, he said Ramadi was “not symbolic in any way.”

I can’t even imagine how difficult it must have been for Debbie Lee, Marc Lee’s mother, to learn that her son had died in Ramadi. But President Obama did something even crueler to Debbie Lee: He allowed ISIS to wave its black flag over the ground that Marc died to save, by ignoring and even mocking the warnings that ISIS was gathering strength.

I have one word for President Obama and Secretary Clinton. That word is “enough.”

Enough of hiding our heads in the sand and pretending that radical Islamic terrorists don’t exist.

Enough of giving $150 billion to the mullahs in Iran, and believing they’ll use it to plant flowers, instead of to kill Americans.

Enough of making it up as we go along, of having no strategy to deal with our enemies other than giving in to them.

Enough of cowering before our enemies and abandoning our staunchest ally, Israel.

Enough of putting politics ahead of the safety and security of the United States.

And enough of believing that the withdrawal of America will bring peace and stability to the world.



President Obama is fond of saying that the only two options we have are conceding to our enemies, and war. He is wrong. What we have most sorely needed in the fight against radical Islamic jihadists is a coherent and comprehensive strategy, a strategy that will advance the stability of the greater Middle East and the security of the United States.

That strategy has to start with a realistic assessment of where we are today, regardless of the dogmas of the past. Over the last 15 years, we’ve often spoken about a “Global War on Terror.” But the reality is that the war against radical Islamic terrorists is largely a regional one.

That regional war spans a larger area than the Middle East, as we’ve conventionally defined it. It was not in the Middle East but in the hills of South Asia that Osama bin Laden planned his attacks against the United States. Thanks to the strength of al-Qaeda in Pakistan, and the rise of Iran, the War on Terror now stretches from Libya in the west to India in the east, from Turkey in the north to Yemen in the south. At the heart of this regional War on Terror are four neighboring countries: Syria, Iraq, Iran, and Afghanistan.

In Afghanistan, we have made real gains in the 14 years since 9/11. But President Obama is planning to repeat in Afghanistan his mistakes in Iraq, by engineering a premature, unconditional pullout that will allow the Taliban and al-Qaeda to thrive again, while ISIS grows in strength.

The president’s nuclear deal has given Iran an eventual path to nuclear weapons, intercontinental ballistic missiles, and hundreds of billions of dollars — resources Iran will use to destabilize its neighbors, kill Americans, and threaten Israel’s existence. Iran’s eastern neighbors — Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India — have wrestled with jihadist violence for decades, and will now have to prevent a more powerful Iran from exporting its mayhem their way.

ISIS has erased the century-old border between Iraq and Syria, drawing foreign fighters to the region and inspiring crowdsourced terror attacks abroad.

Bashar Assad, after four and a half years of civil war, continues to use chemical weapons against his own people, driving young men into the hands of ISIS and al-Qaeda.

Both countries are in tatters. In Syria over half the population has been killed, displaced, or exiled since 2011, and our allies in Europe now face one of the greatest humanitarian crises of our lifetime.

The problems, clearly, are serious. And the solutions must be serious as well. It will not take Gulf War III to defeat ISIS, al-Qaeda, and Iran. From us, it will take a credible commitment, and a credible vision.

The 20th century’s Cold War was very different from the 21st century’s War on Terror. But there is one thing we can learn from Presidents Truman through Reagan: the importance of a bipartisan, multi-national, multi-decade commitment to defeating a strategic and ideological enemy.

If I am elected president, America will help create a formal political and military coalition of 13 countries in the Middle East and South Asia to promote peace and stability in the region.

We can put boots on the ground — and, where necessary, we should. But our brave men and women can’t turn Syria into Sweden, or Iraq into Ireland. What they can do, along with our diplomats and aid workers, is help bring stability to war-torn countries. Stable governments and a stable international system will make it very hard for jihadists to maintain their foothold. Throughout our young century, from 9/11 to today, al-Qaeda and ISIS have flourished where sovereign states have failed.

If I am elected president, America will help create a formal political and military coalition of 13 countries in the Middle East and South Asia to promote peace and stability in the region: Egypt, Israel, Turkey, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Oman, the U.A.E., Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India. These countries don’t agree on everything, just as we don’t always agree with France or Germany. But each of these countries has good reason to defeat ISIS and al-Qaeda, and protect itself against Iranian aggression.

In the first week of my presidency, I will bring the leaders of these nations to Camp David to assemble this coalition. Earlier this year, a number of Arab leaders refused President Obama’s invitation to visit Camp David. Under my leadership, I am confident they will come, because they will once again understand America’s long-term commitment to their security and ours.

After that initial meeting, this new organization of Middle Eastern and South Asian states should meet several times a year, along with Western allies, to discuss economic, military, and cultural cooperation. As these ties deepen, it would not be inconceivable for these nations to build a formal military and political alliance in much the same way that we did with Western Europe in the decade after World War II.

Under President Obama, our enemies believe they have learned a valuable lesson: that all they have to do is wait us out, and America will eventually abandon its friends. We can no longer allow that to happen. By creating an institutional framework that will outlive any particular president, we can stabilize and deepen our friendships in the Middle East and South Asia, regardless of which party is in power in Washington.

As we build a new framework for international cooperation, we must recommit ourselves to a few clear strategic goals that orient our actions and directly address the security challenges facing southwestern Asia.

Here is what our goals should be — what they must be.

First, we have to eliminate the strategic threat posed by ISIS and al-Qaeda to the United States and our allies — in Iraq, in Syria, in Afghanistan, and throughout the region.

Second, we must prevent Iran from destabilizing its neighbors through terrorism, and from developing a nuclear weapon designed to wipe out Israel, oppress the Arab world, and threaten the United States.

Third, we must help our coalition partners cultivate an Islamic world that is tolerant of minorities and at peace with its neighbors.

To achieve these goals, we must recognize the central importance of helping the largest minority in the Middle East: the Kurds. No one has done more to beat back ISIS than the Kurdish peshmerga. Iraq’s Kurdistan Regional Government has become a haven for persecuted minorities in Iraq and Syria. But the Kurds are fighting ISIS with Soviet-era weaponry, while ISIS fights back in advanced American tanks. If the Iraqi government in Baghdad won’t help the Kurds defeat ISIS, then we should arm them directly and begin to treat them as the regional partner they aspire to be.

American power is most effective when our goals are realistic, when our endpoints are clearly defined, and when we are dedicated first and foremost to the preservation of international order.

While Kurds put their lives on the line to defeat ISIS, our nominal allies in Turkey have been aiding the very terrorist groups we are seeking to defeat, including ISIS and al-Qaeda. If Turkey wants to remain a constructive partner of the United States and our allies in the region, Turkey must end its tacit support for terrorists, bury the hatchet with its own Kurdish minority, and recognize that Turkey will be best off in a stable neighborhood, not a jihadist one.

ISIS gained strength in Iraq because we pulled out, and because Iraq’s Shiite-led government discriminated against its Sunni minority. Iraq’s new Shiite prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, has shown promise in addressing the corruption of his predecessor. But we must also call on our Sunni partners in the region to help Iraqi Sunnis stand up on their own two feet, especially if Iraqi Shiites are unwilling or unable to follow Abadi’s lead.

Unfortunately, the Shiite-led regions of Iraq have fallen under the sway of the leading Shiite power in the world: Iran. Thanks to President Obama’s nuclear deal, Iran will have even more influence over Shiite Iraq than it ever had before. The deal affects so much more than Iran’s nuclear infrastructure. It represents a historic shift in the balance of power in the region, away from our allies and toward Iran.

I have pledged to rescind the nuclear deal on Day One of my presidency. But between now and then, Iran will become far stronger than it is today. I intend to order a top-to-bottom review of Iran’s destabilizing activities, from terrorism to ballistic missiles, so that we can confront every aspect of Iran’s aggression against its neighbors and the United States.

A core goal of the new Middle East and South Asian coalition should be to deter the development of an Iranian bomb, and increase the costs of Iranian regional aggression. The only way the Iranian regime will become the peaceful and cooperative force that we all want it to be is if Iran knows it will pay a price for destructive behavior. A credible deterrent will require a serious political, diplomatic, economic, and military commitment from America, and a concerted effort from our coalition partners.

I’ve only scratched the surface of the many things we need to do to restore stability to the Middle East and South Asia. The one thing we must come to accept is that the peaceful and prosperous Middle East of the future may not look like it did 20 or 40 or 100 years ago. Barring a true catastrophe, I am not willing to send 150,000 American troops back to Iraq. And without that level of American involvement, the ethnic factions of Iraq and Syria may choose a different path than the one imposed on them at the end of World War I.

American power is most effective when our goals are realistic, when our endpoints are clearly defined, and when we are dedicated first and foremost to the preservation of international order.

For decades, American politicians have obsessed over Palestinian statehood, while ignoring the conflicts between Sunni and Shiite, the ones between Arabs and Persians and Kurds, and the plight of Christian minorities. Today, it is those more ancient problems that are threatening the stability of the region and the security of the United States. They are problems that we can solve over time, but only after years of peace and cooperation.


Six thousand years ago, ancient Mesopotamia emerged as the cradle of our civilization. Mesopotamians were the first people on Earth to use the written word. They invented irrigation, and cities, and our system of measuring time. So many of the good things we take for granted in our lives were first developed by people who live in what we now call Iraq and Syria.

The barbarians of ISIS think that if they can destroy the historic remnants of Mesopotamia, they can also destroy the aspirations of Iraqis and Syrians to rejoin the civilized world. We owe it to our own security to ensure that civilization prevails over barbarism. Most important, we owe it to humanity.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2015/07/rick-perry-says-trumps-mccain-smear-disqualifies-him/

Being president of the United States is serious business, not a reality TV show.

This is especially true for the next president, who will have a big job ahead after the failures of the Obama administration. Our challenges are too complex — and the future of our country too important — to let egos, inflated rhetoric, and emotion take the place of thoughtful discussion.

I made the case recently for why GOP policies are the best to create opportunity across the country for families of all backgrounds. I’ve held up my home state’s reforms in economic, education, and sentencing policies as examples of conservative governance that have made life better for minorities in Texas compared with other places around the country. And I’ve been honest about our party’s shortcomings — including my own — in engaging all Americans in our conversations about the future of this nation.

But we can’t do that if we’re pitting black against white against brown; rich against poor; women against men. Playing identity politics takes a page right out of the Democrats’ playbook, and we Republicans are better than that.  

That’s why rhetoric such as the kind employed by Donald Trump is damaging — it’s damaging to our party, and most important, damaging to the United States of America. I believe strongly that Mr. Trump’s philosophy is not conservatism, but rather a toxic mix of demagoguery and nonsense.

Mr. Trump’s absurdity reached a new low over the weekend, when he spit in the eye of every American prisoner of war, particularly Senator John McCain. But frankly, we should expect no better from a man who couldn’t be bothered to answer the call to serve his nation when it needed him most.

Mr. Trump’s absurdity reached a new low over the weekend, when he spit in the eye of every American prisoner of war, particularly Senator John McCain.

As a veteran and the son of a veteran, I find Mr. Trump’s brand of vitriol particularly offensive, and I have no confidence that he could adeptly lead our nation’s armed forces. His comments over the weekend should completely and immediately disqualify him from seeking our nation’s highest office.

Our nation’s warriors have been let down and left behind by the bureaucratic bungling of the Veterans Administration. They deserve a leader who will stand up for them, not one who ridicules the deadly circumstances they willingly put themselves in when they volunteer to protect our nation.

Then there is the issue of border security — a challenge Mr. Trump claims to have single-handedly identified and suddenly become expert in. But Mr. Trump’s ridiculous and irresponsible assertion that Texas has not done enough to secure the border betrays his fundamental misunderstanding of this issue.

And even though Mr. Trump may spend a lot of time talking about border security today, his interest doesn’t predate his entrance in the presidential field. We heard no outcry from Mr. Trump when Jocelyn Johnson’s husband, Rodney, was gunned down in 2006 in a sanctuary city by an individual who had previously been deported. Mr. Trump was similarly silent last summer, when we saw an unprecedented flood of unaccompanied children crossing the border because of President Obama’s dangerous amnesty policies. Likewise last year, not a word from Mr. Trump when Border Patrol agent Javier Vega Jr. was shot and killed in front of his wife, two children, and parents by — again — individuals who had been arrested and deported multiple times.

If Mr. Trump plans to “tell it like it is,” then he should tell the facts. Border security is a federal responsibility. Period. But when it became clear that Washington, D.C., wouldn’t act, I told President Obama that if he didn’t secure the border, Texas would.

As the former governor of Texas, a state with a 1,200-mile border with Mexico, I had to live and govern under the shadow of the federal government’s decades-long failure to secure our borders. And rather than sit idly by while Washington, D.C., left our communities vulnerable to a porous border, I acted.

Get Free Exclusive NR Content
During my time in office, I oversaw the dedication of nearly $1 billion to border-security efforts. I’ve overseen surge operations with our state law enforcement, the creation of Texas Ranger Recon teams, and I even deployed the Texas National Guard to the border region last summer. I signed a bill strengthening penalties for those who engage in human trafficking — a bipartisan effort to put an end to the scourge of a modern-day slave trade that is enabled by our unsecured border.

I also signed an executive order mandating the use of E-Verify for all state employees and contractors. By doing this, we ensured that people like Mr. Trump — who has a history of using illegal-immigrant labor for his construction projects (including his new hotel currently under construction in Washington, D.C.) — do not use taxpayer resources on illegal-immigrant labor.

That is real, tangible action. Make no mistake: Contrary to what Mr. Trump seems to believe, Texas never should have had to do any of this, but we stepped in when the federal government failed.

When it comes down to it, Mr. Trump and President Obama have similar records on border security. Neither seems to understand that it’s the federal government’s responsibility to secure our borders. Neither has taken the time to visit the border. Neither has paid any attention to the issue until it’s become politically convenient. And most significantly, neither has put forward any thoughtful solutions to secure the border.


As I’ve said before, this will be a “show me, don’t tell me” election. Our nation needs a thoughtful, experienced leader with the character, resolve, and will to rebuild what this nation has lost over the past six years.

Mr. Trump has done nothing to prove that he is the man for the job.

https://www.nationalreview.com/2014/05/online-gamblings-other-cost-rick-perry/

The debate over Internet gambling has focused on the negative effects that widespread Internet gambling will have on families, state economies and state budgets, and the policing of criminal enterprises and terrorist organizations. But aside from these important concerns, there is a fundamental question that affects the future of Internet regulation and that supporters of Internet gambling are trying to hide and obfuscate.

Internet-gambling proponents are seeking to create, for the first time, formal government oversight and enforcement of a specified class of Internet content. The expansion of Internet gambling will result in the expansion of government and raise more questions about the government presence in our daily lives.

At both the state and the federal levels, Internet-gambling proponents are aggressively lobbying to establish the most far-reaching government regulations of the Internet. One bill calls for the creation of an Office of Internet Gambling Oversight in the Department of the Treasury and would “empower the federal government for overall oversight.” Another calls for an Office of Internet Poker Oversight.

We already know the government has tracked our political activities, monitored our phone calls, and will soon have access to our most personal medical information. Once the government starts actively monitoring one aspect of our Internet commerce, is it credible to believe that it will stop there?

This may start with monitoring age and location for purposes of regulating Internet gambling, but it will not stop there. The gambling industry is already heavily regulated, and rightfully so. Legalizing Internet gambling would expand this heavy regulation to the Internet and create a new breed of government Internet-content cops.

I believe in the U.S. Constitution and in the rights of states as spelled out by the Tenth Amendment. But by its nature, the Internet is a global network transcending state boundaries. Fifty states with 50 different laws regulating the Internet would put up digital roadblocks at every state border, putting a huge burden on commerce.

Let’s look at it another way. What if the FAA didn’t exist and there were 50 different sets of aircraft regulations? Airplanes would have to stop at every state border to ensure they were in compliance with the next state’s rules. The cost of compliance with every state’s rules would be burdensome and the cost of air travel would skyrocket. The same applies to Internet gambling. State-by-state regulations would smother innovation and growth.

It goes without saying that I think that the federal government ought to stay out of states’ business as much as possible. But, for a reason, the Constitution gives Congress the power to regulate commerce among the states. The Founding Fathers believed, as I do, in limiting federal powers, but they also recognized that we must take care to avoid barriers to commerce between the states for our state and national economies to flourish.

The proponents of Internet gambling are at the edge of a slippery slope, the bottom of which is a Federal Department of Internet Regulation with broad and intrusive powers. Internet-gambling advocates like to style themselves as “defenders of the Internet,” but their legislative solutions tell another story.