https://www.insidesources.com/fighting-pain-and-addiction-for-our-nations-veterans/

Last year, more than 130 Americans died each day from a drug overdose involving an opioid. Veterans are twice as likely to die from the same. But there is some good news: The Department of Veterans Affairs is a recognized leader in pain management and opioid safety, and its success in reducing the use of opioids can be emulated by other health systems through VA’s proven strategies.

Chronic pain is more common and more severe among Veterans than among non-Veterans. Severe pain is 40 percent more common in Veterans compared to non-Veterans. Nearly 60 percent of Veterans who have served in the Middle East and more than 50 percent of older Veterans live with some form of chronic pain.

I saw the effects of severe, chronic pain on my father when he returned from Vietnam severely wounded and still recovering after a year in military hospitals. Many Veterans like my father suffer chronic pain for the rest of their lives, and the risk of suicide is particularly high among Veterans and others who face chronic pain.

Fortunately, VA has taken a multi-faceted approach called the Opioid Safety Initiative (OSI) to reduce the need for opioids. Since its launch, the program managed a 45 percent reduction in Veteran patients receiving opioids from July of 2012 to June of 2018. That’s over 300,000 fewer Veterans on opioids.  The same program in the same months reduced Veterans on long-term opioid therapy by 51 percent and Veterans on high-dose opioid therapy by 66 percent.

In addition to system-wide oversight of prescribing of opioids, the initiative has brought pharmacists and prescribers together to educate one another on the problem of identifying the best treatment for each Veteran in pain.

Opioids have a place among treatment options. They are powerful drugs that can be used to alleviate pain and any reduction in their use must be done carefully. Otherwise, patients could be driven to crisis by both the effects of withdrawal and ineffective pain management.

Decisions on the use of opioids must therefore take a Whole Health approach to care, with the aim of not just reducing opioids but also improving functioning by patients. It takes time and attention from providers to have meaningful conversations with patients about what their life goals are, and provide education about what they can reasonably expect from treatment.

This approach uses the stepped care model based on a continuum of care and incorporating professional support and self-management through counseling and participation in groups like Narcotics Anonymous. It also includes non-pharmacological pain treatment options like stress reduction, yoga, tai chi, mindfulness, chiropractic care, nutrition, acupuncture, and health coaching, which may reduce reliance on opioids without increasing pain or causing other health problems.

Virtually all VA facilities have reduced prescriptions for opioids. VA facilities in El Paso, Texas, and Fayetteville, N.C., have managed the greatest reductions, cutting rates by 71 percent in El Paso and 69 percent in Fayetteville.

Rates for other VA facilities can be viewed online since January, when VA became the first hospital system in the country to begin posting its opioid prescribing rates online, updating them twice yearly in January and July.

We expect even better management of pain medications for Veterans when VA and the Department of Defense roll out their new integrated electronic health records. The new records system will give health care providers a full picture of patient medical history, enabling better treatment and better clinical outcomes. It will also help us better identify Veterans at higher risk for opioid addiction and suicide, so health care providers can intervene earlier and save lives.

We have also issued the lifesaving drug Naloxone to over 100,000 Veterans to help prevent tragedies and instituted patient risk assessments for overdose and suicide, bringing the power of big-data analytics to bear through VA’s Stratification Tool for Opioid Risk Mitigation (STORM), which puts predictive analytics in the hands of providers and allows effective collaboration of medical and mental care of Veterans at risk.

There is still more to learn and more to do, and a national solution will require national collaboration. But President Trump has said, “We can be the generation that ends the opioid epidemic.” He is right about that. We can end the epidemic, and VA is helping lead the way.

https://www.blogs.va.gov/VAntage/50910/a-message-to-vas-workforce-from-secretary-robert-wilkie/

There are two emotions today.

The first emotion is feeling very humbled. I was humbled by the honor of being a candidate for this job; I was even more humbled by the call to be your next Secretary.

The second dominant emotion is that of being very, very excited—thrilled!  Thrilled to be part of this department.

I’m deeply grateful to President Trump for the opportunity to serve for him and for America’s Veterans.  I am also grateful to the United States Senate for their vote of confidence.

First off, I want to thank you, the staff of the VA.  Whether you are at a health care facility, on the Benefits team, serving at our cemeteries, or here as part of our staff at the headquarters. You may not hear enough, but I want you to hear it from me. Thank you for your tireless work and devotion to our Veterans… and thank you for all you do to help them and their families everyday.

When President Herbert Hoover signed the executive order in 1930 creating the Veterans Administration, he consolidated Veterans programs and created a new independent administration “for the relief of veterans.”  Eighty eight years later, that is still our charge.

Serving our Veterans is a noble calling.  We have a solemn responsibility to our Veterans – not just today, but in the months and years to come, to set the standard for the millions coming into our VA, and for the millions who will join the ranks down the years.

During my confirmation hearing, and in previous messages to you while serving as the Acting Secretary, I shared with you my philosophy – customer service.

Customer service must start with each other-not talking at each other but with each other across all office barriers and across all compartments.  If we don’t listen to each other, we won’t be able to listen to our Veterans and their families…. and we won’t be able to provide the world class customer service they deserve.

Next, we must have a bottom up organization.  The energy must flow from you who are closest to those we are sworn to serve.

It is from you that the ideas we carry to the Congress, the VSOs and to America’s Veterans will come.  Anyone who sits in this chair and tells you he or she has the answers is in the wrong business.

I want to share a story with you from President Eisenhower.

Five months after his inauguration, about forty Korean War Veterans climbed aboard the presidential yacht Williamsburg—many were missing limbs, some were horribly disfigured.  When Ike arrived at the pier, the Secret Service began running up the plank to separate the President from his troops.  Before they reached the deck, Eisenhower yelled “Halt!  I know these men.”  The agents retreated, and the soldiers gathered around the President.

He said there was nothing the country could do for them that could compensate for what they had given to America.  He then addressed them at attention, and those who could stand did, and said you will never put away your uniform, you are always on duty.  “You must get well, to remind your countrymen everyday that freedom is never free.”

This is our VA.  We are here to care for all of our nation’s heroes whose service and sacrifice inspires us all.  That is our important and non-negotiable mission.  The President and Congress support us, and I’m honored and excited to lead this organization.

I look forward to meeting you, listening to you and serving alongside you.  I value your thoughts and insights as we improve our department for the challenges in the years ahead.

Thank you and God bless.

https://www.blogs.va.gov/VAntage/53840/secretary-wilkies-remarks-on-veterans-day-2018/

Since the Armistice Day on Nov. 11, 1919, Americans have paused to salute the service and remember the sacrifices of our men and women in uniform.

Though every Veterans Day is special, this year’s commemoration is particularly meaningful—marking the 100th anniversary of the 11th hour of the 11th day in the 11th month of 1918, the moment when the guns of the Great War fell silent across Europe.

In the conflicts preceding World War I, and in those that have followed, Americans have never faltered.

Whether in epic battles—the names of which are known to many—or in little-known skirmishes, remembered only by those who fought them, men and women of our Armed Forces have pledged themselves to preserve the strength and assure the survival of our Nation.

From Bunker Hill to Baghdad, the men and women of our Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, and Coast Guard answered the call to safeguard the American way of life.

As the Nation honors its 20 million living Veterans and acknowledges their courage and sacrifice in war and their endeavors during periods of peace, I am proud to extend them the respect and gratitude of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

I want to also thank VA’s employees, many of whom are Veterans themselves, for their unwavering commitment to and compassion for those who have borne the battle.

It is our privilege—today and every day—to remind our fellow citizens of the debt we owe to those who have so willingly answered the highest calling.

Their legacy is the freedom we all enjoy and too often take for granted.

What we do here and how we do it ensures that every day is Veterans Day at America’s VA.

God Bless all who have served, their families and this great nation.

https://www.blogs.va.gov/VAntage/52809/video-secretary-robert-wilkie-delivers-state-of-va-message-to-employees/

Hello. I recently testified before Congress about our vision for Veterans. I wanted to take a few minutes to share that vision with you, about the state of our VA.

The turmoil of the first half of 2018 is now in the rear-view mirror. And I’m happy to report, the state of our VA is better. It’s better because of the support of the President, Congress, and an unprecedented series of legislative actions to reform VA and improve care and benefits for Veterans.

And it’s better because of you, good people dedicated to caring for Veterans, their families, their caregivers, and their survivors.

It’s been my privilege to meet and hear from many of you at national cemeteries, claims processing centers, and VA hospitals from Boston to Las Vegas. You’re tackling tough issues, implementing Appeals Modernization as you reduce wait times for Veterans with pending appeals, implementing the MISSION Act to give Veterans more choice in health care decisions, adopting the same electronic health record as DoD to give Veterans a seamless transfer of medical information once they leave the service, and improving transparency, increasing accountability, and protecting whistleblowers.

You’re on the cutting edge of medical care in rehabilitative services. You’re out-performing the private sector in terms of quality of care and patient safety. You’ve been working around the clock to serve and protect our Veterans across the Carolinas during this time of great need, providing foundational emergency response for our government. As a Carolinian, I thank you on behalf of my family and friends.

I’ve seen wonderful examples of your accomplishments that deserve so much more attention than they get. And I cannot begin to tell you how proud I am to be part of your team.

And Veterans and their needs are changing, faster than we realize. For the first time in four decades, half of our twenty million Veterans are now under the age of 65. They’re computer savvy and demand 21st-century service that’s easy to access, efficiently delivered, and available where needed. Ten percent are women. By 2040, about 16 percent will be women. Since 2000, the number of women Veterans receiving VA health care has tripled.

All of which is to say, we’re on the cusp of the most important era in the history of the Department, transformation not seen since World War II when General Omar Bradley headed the Veterans Administration.

It’s not business as usual. Veterans’ futures are in our hands. There are no more excuses.

So our first priority is customer service. That’s the prime directive. When Veterans come to VA, it is not up to them to get us to say yes. It’s up to us, you and me, to get Veterans to yes. That’s customer service. We’re going to make sure you’re trained and equipped to achieve that.

Our second priority, implementing the MISSION Act, will fundamentally transform VA health care. It will consolidate community care into a single program that’s easier for Veterans, families, community providers, and all of you to navigate. The MISSION Act also expands our family caregivers program to provide much-needed assistance to the people caring for some of our most needy Veterans day in and day out.

Our third priority is replacing our aging electronic health record. The new electronic health record will modernize our appointment system, automate our disability and payment claims systems, and connect VA to the Department of Defense, private health-care providers, and private pharmacies. Implementing the electronic health record will be an ongoing, iterative process to build a continuum of care that’s organized around Veterans’ needs.

Our fourth priority is transforming our business systems. We’re modernizing human resource management, finance and acquisition, and our supply chain. It’s about giving you more leeway to manage budgets, recruit, retain, and relocate staff you need to serve Veterans. It’s also about more robust partnerships with state and local communities to address challenges like Veteran homelessness and suicide prevention.

And we’ll keep making progress on other important issues like expanding services and sites of care for women Veterans so every Veteran across the country can choose to get her primary care at VA, filling our ranks in all areas, and providing more health care appointments than ever before.

Customer service.

The MISSION Act.

Electronic Health Record modernization.

Business Transformation.

Our VA is giving Veterans better access to care and benefits—a VA Veterans choose because we offer world-class customer service across our operations.

Veterans’ future is in our hands, and you’ve shown time and again it’s well-placed.

https://www.blogs.va.gov/VAntage/52128/secretary-robert-wilkie-remembers-9-11/

Seventeen years ago, we witnessed the destruction of the World Trade Center; the devastating attack on the Pentagon; and we mourned lives lost in a Pennsylvania field.

Today, it is still difficult to see those tragic images without feeling anger. Since then, we proved our mettle as a Nation and reminded the world of General Eisenhower‚a warning that the most formidable fighting force on the planet is a democracy aroused. Despite the loss, we remain free, confident, and the beacon of hope for the entire world. Since that day in 2001, millions of young men and women have joined our Armed Forces.

Their response to the attacks was typically American‚they saw their duty and selflessly put their lives on the line.

They represent the best of us and proudly carry the torch lit on revolutionary fields so long ago. We, at the Department of Veterans Affairs, are grateful for and to them. We are proud of our own VA colleagues who were serving on that day and those who have sacrificed since the attack. You make American great. On this anniversary, we remember those lost on that day in 2001, and honor all who gave the last full measure in the years since. We remain resolute in our commitment to the principles that have preserved the American way of life for almost 250 years. Thank you for what you do for Veterans and their families each day, and may God continue to bless our great Nation.

https://www.blogs.va.gov/VAntage/48879/a-memorial-day-message-from-acting-secretary-wilkie/

This Memorial Day, Americans will gather on the hallowed grounds of VA’s national cemeteries to remember our war dead, pay homage to their courage, and honor those who sacrificed so much to preserve our nation.

I count myself fortunate to have spent much of my life in public service and to have joined an organization where we have a workforce that takes great pride in our noble mission. At VA, we honor those who made the supreme sacrifice by caring for their survivors, for Veterans who returned from battle, for those who served in periods of peace and for their families.

This is, simply, the most inspiring mission in the federal government — to care for those “who shall have borne the battle.” While we have made progress, more work remains to be done to uphold our commitments and our obligations to those we serve.

I am sincerely grateful for the unwavering support of Veterans service organizations and the devoted workforce of VA. Our employees, many of whom are Veterans, work hard each and every day to best serve our Veterans. I am honored to serve alongside them.

On this Memorial Day, I encourage all Americans to pause for a moment and to reflect on those who have gone before us in service to America—and to reverently remember those who gave their last full measure for our country.

Thank you, and God bless all who serve our nation.

https://www.blogs.va.gov/VAntage/47910/message-to-va-employees-regarding-public-service-recognition-week/

This week, VA joins the nation in celebrating Public Service Recognition Week, a federal observance recognizing the value of public service, and honoring the men and women who serve the public at the federal, state, county, and local level.

I count myself fortunate to have spent most of my life in public service and I hope you feel the same way about serving Veterans.

You have the most inspiring mission in the federal government — to care for those “who shall have borne the battle.”  And in the past few years, you’ve made amazing progress in improving Veterans’ care and services.

This week, we will be recognizing your past achievements as well as your continued commitment to public service at events all across the country.

It’s an occasion for VA leaders and coworkers at all levels to acknowledge the importance of our work and the significance of our contributions.

I am sincerely grateful for your service to America’s Veterans, and I am honored to serve alongside you.

Thank you, and God bless all who serve.