https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2017/december/opening-plenary-statement-ustr

In the brief time I have, I would like to make a few basic points. 

First, the WTO is obviously an important institution.  It does an enormous amount of good, and provides a helpful negotiating forum for Contracting Parties. 

But, in our opinion, serious challenges exist.

Second, many are concerned that the WTO is losing its essential focus on negotiation and becoming a litigation-centered organization.  Too often members seem to believe they can gain concessions through lawsuits that they could never get at the negotiating table.  We have to ask ourselves whether this is good for the institution and whether the current litigation structure makes sense.

Third, we need to clarify our understanding of development within the WTO.  We cannot sustain a situation in which new rules can only apply to the few, and that others will be given a pass in the name of self-proclaimed development status.  There is something wrong, in our view, when five of the six richest countries in the world presently claim developing country status.  Indeed, we should all be troubled that so many Members appear to believe that they would be better off with exemptions to the rules.  If in the opinion of a vast majority of Members playing by current WTO rules makes it harder to achieve economic growth, then clearly serious reflection is needed.

Fourth, it is impossible to negotiate new rules when many of the current ones are not being followed.  This is why the United States is leading a discussion on the need to correct the sad performance of many Members in notifications and transparency.  Some Members are intentionally circumventing these obligations, and addressing these lapses will remain a top U.S. priority.

Fifth, the United States believes that much can and should be done at the WTO to help make markets more efficient.  We are interested in revitalizing the standing bodies to ensure they are focused on new challenges, such as chronic overcapacity and the influence of state-owned enterprises.  Further, we are working closely with many Members in committee and elsewhere to address real-world problems such as SPS barriers.

We believe that all of us are here primarily to represent our own citizens to secure rules that will best help them. As President Trump said in his U.N. speech, institutions like this function best when all sovereign nations acting in their own best interest pull together and find ways that permit us all to prosper.

Finally, the United States looks forward to working with all Members who share our goal of using the WTO to create rules that will lead to more efficient markets, more trade and greater wealth for our citizens.  Such outcomes will build public support not only for open markets, but for the WTO itself.

https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2018/july/statement-us-trade-representative

On Friday, in response to unfair Chinese practices, the United States began imposing tariffs of 25 percent on approximately $34 billion worth of Chinese imports.  These tariffs will eventually cover up to $50 billion in Chinese imports as legal processes conclude.  The products targeted by the tariffs are those that benefit from China’s industrial policy and forced technology transfer practices.

China has since retaliated against the United States by imposing tariffs on $34 billion in U.S. exports to China, and threatening tariffs on another $16 billion.  It did this without any international legal basis or justification.

As a result of China’s retaliation and failure to change its practices, the President has ordered USTR to begin the process of imposing tariffs of 10 percent on an additional $200 billion of Chinese imports. This is an appropriate response under the authority of Section 301 to obtain the elimination of China’s harmful industrial policies. USTR will proceed with a transparent and comprehensive public notice and comment process prior to the imposition of final tariffs, as we have for previous tariffs.

On August 14, 2017, President Trump instructed USTR to begin the Section 301 process.  For many years, China has pursued abusive trading practices with regard to intellectual property and innovation.  USTR conducted a thorough investigation over an 8-month period, including public hearings and submissions.  In a detailed 200-page report, USTR found that China has been engaging in industrial policy which has resulted in the transfer and theft of intellectual property and technology to the detriment of our economy and the future of our workers and businesses. 

USTR’s Section 301 report found that Chinese policies and practices force U.S. innovators to hand over their technology and know-how as the price of doing business in China.  China also uses non-economic means to obtain U.S. technology, such as using state-owned funds and companies to buy up American businesses and imposing burdensome intellectual property licensing requirements in China.  USTR’s report also found that the Chinese government sponsors the outright theft of U.S. technology for commercial benefit.  These practices are an existential threat to America’s most critical comparative advantage and the future of our economy: our intellectual property and technology. 

For over a year, the Trump Administration has patiently urged China to stop its unfair practices, open its market, and engage in true market competition.  We have been very clear and detailed regarding the specific changes China should undertake.  Unfortunately, China has not changed its behavior – behavior that puts the future of the U.S. economy at risk. Rather than address our legitimate concerns, China has begun to retaliate against U.S. products.  There is no justification for such action. 

As in the past, the United States is willing to engage in efforts that could lead to a resolution of our concerns about China’s unfair trade practices and to China opening its market to U.S. goods and services.  In the meantime, we will remain vigilant in defending the ability of our workers and businesses to compete on a fair and reciprocal basis.

https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2018/june/statement-ambassador-robert-e

President Trump has taken actions on trade in steel and aluminum to protect our national security interests.  These actions are wholly legitimate and fully justified, both as a matter of U.S. law and WTO rules.  By contrast, the European Union has concocted a groundless legal theory to justify immediate tariffs on U.S. exports.  Other WTO Members, including China, have adopted a similar approach.

These retaliatory tariffs underscore the complete hypocrisy that governs so much of the global trading system.  For months, the EU, China, and others have criticized the trade policy of the United States, while claiming to champion the WTO.  But their recent tariffs prove that they simply ignore WTO rules whenever doing so is convenient.

Article XXI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade gives broad authority to WTO Members to take action necessary to protect essential security interests.  For decades, the United States has consistently held the position that actions taken pursuant to Article XXI are not justiciable by any panel of the WTO.  In other words, each sovereign country must have the power to decide, for itself, what actions are essential to its security.  Any other reading of the Article would represent an unacceptable constraint on the freedom and independence of all WTO Members.

President Trump’s actions regarding steel and aluminum plainly fall within the legitimate scope of Article XXI.  Faced with massive excess capacity that puts the very future of our steel and aluminum industries at risk, President Trump took certain measures that he deemed essential to the national security of the United States.  These measures were implemented only after long and careful analysis, and after all trading partners had the chance to address our concerns.

While the United States has acted responsibly here, the European Union and its followers have not.  Rather than work with the United States, they have retaliated with tariffs designed to punish U.S. companies and workers.  In an effort to give cover to this blatant disregard for WTO rules, they claim to be acting in reliance on a narrow exception that applies only in response to a safeguard measure.  That exception does not apply here, however, because the United States has not taken a safeguard measure.  The President’s actions here were taken under a U.S. national security statute – not under the separate U.S. statute for safeguard measures.  In fact, there is no credible basis for the EU’s legal theory.

When the EU and others falsely assert the U.S. steel and aluminum duties are safeguard measures, and impose retaliatory duties under this pretense, they do great damage to the multilateral trading system.  Indeed, they show that they are willing to distort WTO rules to mean whatever they want, whenever they want.

Faced with these unjustified tariffs, the United States will take all necessary actions under both U.S. law and international rules to protect its interests.

https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2018/august/statement-us-trade-representative

On June 18, the President directed me to identify $200 billion worth of Chinese goods for additional tariffs at a rate of 10 percent, in response to China’s decision to cause further harm to U.S. workers, farmers, and businesses by imposing retaliatory duties on U.S. goods.  I initiated this process on July 10. 

This week, the President has directed that I consider increasing the proposed level of the additional duty from 10 percent to 25 percent.  The 25 percent duty would be applied to the proposed list of products previously announced on July 10. 

The Trump Administration continues to urge China to stop its unfair practices, open its market, and engage in true market competition.  We have been very clear about the specific changes China should undertake.  Regrettably, instead of changing its harmful behavior, China has illegally retaliated against U.S. workers, farmers, ranchers and businesses.

The increase in the possible rate of the additional duty is intended to provide the Administration with additional options to encourage China to change its harmful policies and behavior and adopt policies that will lead to fairer markets and prosperity for all of our citizens.

The United States has joined forces with like-minded partners around the world to address unfair trade practices such as forced technology transfer and intellectual property theft, and we remain ready to engage with China in negotiations that could resolve these and other problems detailed in our Section 301 report.

https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2018/july/statement-ustr-robert-lighthizer

As you all know and has been said here already, Africa has some of the fastest growing economies in the world and a rapidly expanding middle class.  These trends should result in increased demands for American products and services, and the U.S. private sector has taken notice.

We’re seeing this play out in many tangible ways.  More small and medium-sized U.S. companies are doing business on the Continent—often directly with African businesses, not just with governments and state-owned enterprises. These companies are branching out into new sectors such as information technology and service industries.

AGOA has provided an important framework for our economic engagement during these last two decades.  But by 2025—when AGOA is set to expire—it will be a quarter century old, and we cannot predict what will happen at that time. 

We should seize the moment by pursuing a new, forward-looking vision for the future of U.S.-African trade.  This vision should recognize that sub-Saharan Africa looks very different in 2018 than it did in 2000 when AGOA was first created. We believe that there are countries in Africa that are ready to move from AGOA beneficiary to U.S. free trade agreement partner.    

We hope we can work with a willing partner to create an agreement that can serve as a template for additional deals on the continent. Doing so would build on the success of AGOA and reinforce the larger project of regional economic integration with Africa.

I look forward during these meetings to continuing this conversation, to gaining your thoughts on how we can proceed, and, as I say, learning more about Africa.

https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2018/june/ustr-robert-lighthizer-statement-0

I support the President’s action.  The initial tariffs that the President asked us to put in place were proportionate and responsive to forced technology transfer and intellectual property theft by the Chinese.  It is very unfortunate that instead of eliminating these unfair trading practices China said that it intends to impose unjustified tariffs targeting U.S. workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.  At the President’s direction, USTR is preparing the proposed tariffs to offset China’s action.

https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2018/january/ustr-robert-lighthizer-statement-0

Canada’s new request for consultations at the WTO is a broad and ill-advised attack on the U.S. trade remedies system.  U.S. trade remedies ensure that trade is fair by counteracting dumping or subsidies that are injuring U.S. workers, farmers, and manufacturers.  Canada’s claims are unfounded and could only lower U.S. confidence that Canada is committed to mutually beneficial trade. 

Canada is acting against its own workers’ and businesses’ interests. Even if Canada succeeded on these groundless claims, other countries would primarily benefit, not Canada.  For example, if the U.S. removed the orders listed in Canada’s complaint, the flood of imports from China and other countries would negatively impact billions of dollars in Canadian exports to the United States, including nearly $9 billion in exports of steel and aluminum products and more than $2.5 billion in exports of wood and paper products.  Canada’s claims threaten the ability of all countries to defend their workers against unfair trade.  Canada’s complaint is bad for Canada.

https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2018/july/opening-statement-ustr-robert

It has been 14 months since I was confirmed as the United States Trade Representative. It has been a very busy year for our agency. I would like to take you through a few of the highlights.

We have been renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement at an unprecedented speed. This would be the first comprehensive renegotiation of a U.S. trade agreement.  As part of this process, we have consulted extensively with Congress as required by TPA. Hopefully, we are in the finishing stages of achieving an agreement in principle that will benefit American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses. 

We are finalizing revisions to the U.S. – Korea Free Trade Agreement.  We arrived at an agreement with the Koreans to strengthen domestic truck manufacturing here in the United States, allow more U.S. vehicles to enter the Korean market without burdensome regulations, and fix a whole host of implementation issues related to agricultural, pharmaceutical products, and many other products.

We are actively engaging in efforts to commence new trade agreements, including the newly-announced EU initiative from yesterday.  After the confirmation of my Deputies in mid-March of this year, I instructed Ambassadors Mahoney and Gerrish to consult with Congress and to work with their foreign counterparts to find future partners for future agreements. We are speaking with a number of countries in Southeast Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, and I’ll be happy to talk about that further if you are interested.

We have taken action on two 201 investigations, one on solar products and the other on washing machines.  These are the first 201 investigations since 2001.  Both cases involved a tremendous amount of work reviewing facts. Each resulted in an affirmative ITC recommendation, with the President largely accepting the recommendations of the International Trade Commission.  And we have seen success in domestic manufacturing as a result of those actions.

At the direction of the President, USTR has been leading the Section 301 efforts to combat unfair Chinese intellectual property practices.  In March of this year, we published our report and identified several major problems, including forced technology transfer, non-economic licensing practices, state-funded strategic acquisition of U.S. technology, and cybertheft.  In response to the Chinese actions, the President directed the implementation of several measures, including a WTO case which we brought, targeted tariffs, strengthened export controls, and rigorously addressing state-directed investment in critical technologies. 

We are also pursuing and defending numerous actions at the World Trade Organization.  We are actively litigating 10 offensive disputes, defending 21 disputes, and participating as a third party in another 20 cases. 

In addition to these major initiatives, USTR runs a host of other programs and deals with many trade issues on a day-to-day basis.  We operate the Generalized System of Preferences program and the African Growth and Opportunity Act program. We monitor our many trade agreements we have in place. We prepare and publish numerous reports on trade. We lead the interagency process for developing trade policy. And we work on a daily basis with our foreign counterparts to reduce barriers to U.S. trade around the world. 

Finally, I would like to touch on the budget of USTR. In FY 2017, we were appropriated $62 million with an option of deriving funds from a trust fund that was set up in 2015.  Our appropriation for FY 2018 was $57.6 million plus $15 million from the Trade Enforcement Trust Fund. We are certainly grateful for the added appropriation, and we are focused on making the best use possible of it. For the fiscal year 2019 President’s Budget, USTR requested $63 million to support staffing increases and focus on priority areas. 

I thank the Members of the Subcommittee for their time today, and look forward to answering your questions and discussing the President’s trade agenda.