https://www.cnn.com/2017/12/07/opinions/why-we-shrunk-the-monuments-zinke/index.html

Across our great land, objects of cultural and historic significance tell the story of our nation. From the Statue of Liberty to the birthplace of George Washington, preserving our American heritage means protecting these objects. In 1906, President Teddy Roosevelt signed the Antiquities Act, giving the President power to proclaim objects on federal lands as national monuments and to reserve the smallest area of land compatible with their protection as part of the monument designation.

In recent years, however, presidents have abused the Antiquities Act to lock up vast swaths of public land. The "smallest area compatible" requirement has become the exception, rather than the rule, as public access, hunting and fishing, and use of private property are restricted.
Often, these designations are made without the support of the people on the ground. With this in mind, President Donald Trump directed me, in April, to review recent national monument designations under the Antiquities Act.
President Trump was absolutely right to order this review. The President pledged during the campaign that the forgotten men and women of this country would be forgotten no more, and he is delivering on that promise. I met with countless local stakeholders, rode the range with ranchers, spoke with conservationists, and spent time with Native American tribal leaders, trying to understand the effect that these monument designations have had on everyday Americans.

I sat down with people on all sides of the issue to listen to their perspectives and from those conversations, formed my recommendations to the President. What I found was that we can all agree on wanting to protect these objects of historic or scientific interest while ensuring public access to public land. True conservation, based on the philosophy of multiple-use on our public lands, has been the American way for decades.
Here in Utah, President Barack Obama designated a 1.35-million acre national monument, Bears Ears, on his way out the door and over the objections of the state's governor and entire congressional delegation. As for another Utah monument, the Grand Staircase-Escalante, Utah Gov. Gary Herbert told reporters in September that former-Gov. Mike Leavitt (who opposed the designation) found out about the monument's creation in the newspaper the next day.
The Antiquities Act is not a weapon for presidents to arbitrarily restrict the uses of hundreds of thousands of acres of land to prevent uses like timber harvesting and cattle grazing -- ways of life for many American families and the lifeblood of many local economies. It is also not a tool for presidents to use to restrict access for outdoor recreation on land that belongs to all of us.
I highlighted Bears Ears and the Grand Staircase-Escalante in my recommendations to the President, suggesting a new way forward, an approach in which we listen to the voices of the people, not Washington, D.C., special interests. This week, I was honored to join President Trump as he traveled to Utah and signed new proclamations that conform to the spirit and letter of the Antiquities Act.

Bears Ears National Monument will be modified to create two units: the Indian Creek Unit and the Shash Jáa units. Between these two units, which will now span over 200,000 acres of federal land, the proclamation continues to protect important objects -- from the Bears Ears buttes and headwaters, Moon House Ruin, and Doll House Ruin, to unique paleontological resources and areas sacred to Native Americans.
The Bears Ears Commission will be renamed the Shash Jáa Commission and expanded to include San Juan County Commissioner Rebecca Benally, a Native American elected by the majority-Native American voting district in the county.
While previous presidents have said the right things about Native Americans, President Trump is backing it up with action, by requesting from Congress that tribes be granted full co-management authority of the Shash Jaa Unit. At the same time, the new proclamation makes more than a million acres of land that was unnecessary for protection available now to tribal members, Utahns, and other members of the public to use it as they did prior to the Bears Ears designation.
The Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument will be modified to consist of three smaller units known as the Grand Staircase, Kaiparowits, and Escalante Canyons units.

The modified monument retains important objects of historic or scientific interest identified in the original designation, from areas with high concentrations of fossil resources, to geological wonders like the Grosvenor Arch, and important historic places, such as Dance Hall Rock. President Trump's proclamation reduces the monument by more than 850,000 acres, bringing back access and curbing federal overreach.
The President's actions focus on protecting land within the smallest area necessary while restoring traditional uses of these lands and prioritizing the voice of the people over that of the special interest groups. This action does not transfer one square inch of this land out of federal ownership.
As the chief steward of our public lands, it is my responsibility to ensure that these lands are used "for the benefit and enjoyment of the people," as the words above the Roosevelt Arch in Yellowstone National Park so proudly proclaim. Under the Trump administration, this is our charge. Local voices in Utah and across America have a friend in the White House once again.

http://fairfieldsuntimes.com/wildfires-seem-unstoppable-but-they-can-be-prevented-heres-how-p890-168.htm

The flames of the Ferguson Fire in California have become the latest symbols of a seemingly perennial challenge of fighting fires in the West. I just returned from the Ferguson Fire camp, where I met with firefighters who are working to combat the fire as it bears down on Yosemite National Park and its visitors, workers and nearby residents.

President Donald Trump has taken decisive action, issuing an emergency disaster declaration for California as dozens of wildfires rip through the forests and communities that populate the area.

There are currently about 100 wildfires burning across the west, forcing tens of thousands of people to evacuate. Many have lost all but the clothes on their backs. We are just now hitting the peak of a traditional fire season and already this year we have seen about5 million acres of land and thousands of structures destroyed. We’ve lost friends and neighbors, including firefighters who dropped everything to respond to the call to duty. Their service and sacrifice will never be forgotten.

The fires are burning hotter and more intense, due in part to hot and dry weather and in part to the fuels that overload our forests. These fuels fill forests from the floor, where highly-combustible, dry pine needles act as kindling to jump-start the tiniest spot fire, all the way up to the crown where beetle-killed trees dot the mountains like matches. In between the floor and the crown, there are years’ worth of dead logs, overgrown shrubs and snags, which many firefighters call “widow makers” because they are so deadly. The buildup of fuels is the condition we can and must reverse through active forest management like prescribed burns, mechanical thinning and timber harvests.

Why we need to manage our forests;

There are three reasons for active forest management:

First, it is better for the environment to manage the forests. Wildfires produce smoke and emissions. The release of gases and particles can negatively affect air quality. Fires also damage watersheds, and as we see fires burning hotter and longer, the soil is actually becoming scorched and sterilized, preventing regrowth. In addition, while many of the frivolous lawsuits waged to stop timber harvests cite habitat as a concern, environmental litigants are little concerned when an entire forest burns to the ground and the habitat and wildlife are lost.

Second, active forest management is good for the economy. Logs come out of the forest in one of two ways: They are either harvested sustainably to improve the health and resilience of the forest (while creating jobs), or they are burned to the ground. Jobs matter, and logging has long been a cornerstone of rural economies. Fortunately for all, these economic benefits go hand-in-hand with our goal of healthy forests.

Third, and most important, the active management of our forests will save lives. The Carr Fire in northern California has already claimed half a dozen lives, and the Ferguson Fire has taken the lives of two firefighters. Sadly, these are not the only wildfire casualties this year.

Every year we watch our forests burn, and every year there is a call for action. Yet, when action comes, and we try to thin forests of dead and dying timber, or we try to sustainably harvest timber from dense and fire-prone areas, we are attacked with frivolous litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods.

Taking action to fight and prevent wildfires;

The Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture, through the Forest Service, fight wildfires together. This year, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue secured a bipartisan fix to the way firefighting is funded. The fix helps ensure we have necessary resources to maintain forests and helps ease the recurrence and severity of wildfires.

At the Department of the Interior, which manages one-fifth of the nation’s land through the National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management and other agencies, we are taking a hands-on approach to managing our forests and preventing wildfire. Last year, I signed a Secretarial Order mandating aggressive fuels management and protecting structures that lie within the wildland-urban interface. We are also using drones like never before to monitor and contain fires.

As we saw in the case of the Sperry Chalet in Glacier National Park, all it takes is one stray ember to burn an entire building down. We have learned from our mistakes. I saw how the new superintendent of Yosemite National Park, Michael Reynolds, is leading the way and cleaning up much of the overgrown forest floor, getting rid of the fuels that would cause the park to go up in smoke.

Radical environmentalists would have you believe forest management means clear cutting forests and national parks. But their rhetoric could not be further from the truth. They make outdated and unscientific arguments, void of facts, because they cannot defend the merits of their policy preferences year after year as our forests and homes burn to the ground.

I’ve visited too many fire camps and spoken with too many experts to know that those who perished fighting these fires could have been saved. We owe it to the firefighters we have lost, like Cal Fire bulldozer operator Braden Varney and National Park Service Arrowhead Interagency Hotshot Captain Brian Hughes, to work harder to improve the health of our forests so their brothers and sisters on the fire line no longer face the same dangers and do not have to pay the same price to keep our families safe.

https://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/energy-environment/397705-bipartisan-bill-would-bring-needed-funds-to

There is no greater American tradition than fireworks on the Fourth of July. This year, as I watched the fireworks over our nation’s capital, under the illumination of the rockets’ red glare, I could not fail to notice the many monuments that are in need of repair. Our monuments, battlefields, parks, and public lands are our nation’s greatest treasures, and now is the moment to invest in ensuring their future.

America’s National Park System is the envy of the world; it is a collection of 417 park units like Yosemite and Yellowstone, representing America’s best idea. Our parks tell the story of our nation, ranging from the origins of the American conservation ethic, to our sacred battlefields, to the Civil Rights Movement. Quite frankly, our American park system represents our American values.

Last year, our parks had 330 million visitors, with more visitors expected this year. Unfortunately, our park system has been neglected and is in need of rebuilding. We are loving our parks to death. The backlog of critical maintenance and repairs in the National Park Service stands at $11.6 billion and until recently, addressing the backlog seemed to be out of our reach.

But nothing is truly out of reach for America. We are, after all, the nation that pioneered the West, won both World Wars, and put a man on the moon. Our ability to preserve the splendor and beauty of our National Park System should be a slam dunk.

A bipartisan bill that is now before the Senate would achieve this worthy goal. Thanks to the efforts of leaders like Sens. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Angus King (I-Maine), and many others, the bill has momentum as others join to show their commitment to our public lands. I commend every senator involved in this effort for recognizing that preserving our parks is not a Republican or Democrat issue – it is an American issue.

I would like to thank President Trump for his leadership throughout the process. In the president’s 2019 budget request to Congress, he proposed the largest investment in public lands infrastructure in American history. The president is a builder, and his commitment to American infrastructure has provided the path to get us to this point.

The deteriorating state of many of the roads, bridges, trails, visitor centers, and restrooms across the National Park System should be unacceptable to every American. Americans love the outdoors – it is no surprise that recreation in the United States is an $887 billion industry (and growing). Every American deserves a park system that is “for the benefit and enjoyment of the people,” as the words above the Roosevelt Arch above Yellowstone National Park proclaim.

The president and I support the bill before Congress. In the spirit of July 4, fixing and repairing our National Park System will preserve a uniquely American institution for generations to come.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/made-in-america-promoting-the-all-american-outdoor-experience

This week, President Trump kicked off “Made in America Week.” At the Department of the Interior, we are taking this opportunity to promote and strengthen America’s tradition of outdoor recreation on public lands. The all-American outdoor experience was the idea of visionaries like President Theodore Roosevelt, and has been carried on by the federal government and Congress for years. It could not have been possible without help from philanthropic foundations, American businesses, and thousands of public-private partnerships across our public lands.

We already have thousands of partners across the country who fund and assist with visitor services, infrastructure, and even land acquisition for increased public access.

In my recent visit to Boston Harbor National Recreation Area, I learned how it is a unique example of a public-private-public partnership where federal, state, and private organizations work together to manage the land, provide boat transportation between islands, restore historic lighthouses and forts, lead educational tours, and complete janitorial and maintenance tasks. All of this could not be possible without the joint effort.

Private individuals and philanthropic organizations also help maintain our public lands.

For example, earlier this year, President Trump donated his first quarter salary of about $78,000 to the National Park Service to restore historic battlefields. Private foundations like the Civil War Trust, National Park Foundation, and Save Historic Antietam all chipped in, and with matching donations we were able to fund a $263,000 project to restore a historic structure and nearly mile-long fence at Antietam National Battlefield in Maryland.

Some of our most-iconic, all-American outdoor experiences, like riding a historic Ford “Red Jammer” bus in Glacier National Park, staying overnight in the El Tovar lodge at the Grand Canyon, or whale watching in Alaska’s Glacier Bay National Park, would not be possible without the valued work of American businesses and workers.

To highlight and expand on Made in America partnerships and products, this week Interior is hosting a roundtable with outdoor recreation industry leaders to brainstorm innovative ideas for how we can work together to build upon the outdoor experience on public lands. Some ideas I’ve already heard are for outdoor recreation outfitters to make investments in our public lands for things like energy-efficient cabins and fishing access points.

The Department is focused on identifying and expanding the best existing services, and bringing in new services to parks and recreation areas to preserve and enhance the American outdoor experience.

For example, Wi-Fi access, internal transportation, campgrounds, boat ramps, concessions, and even restrooms are not available on many public lands. Also, once somebody gets to a recreation area, common services like boat, ATV, and fishing pole rentals are often unavailable. Our goal is to expand services so public access to our public land is expanded for all Americans.

More partnerships does not mean privatizing our parks as some have wrongly suggested. I am opposed to the sale or transfer of our public lands, and under my watch our public lands will remain public, “For the benefit and enjoyment of the people,” as the famous Yellowstone Roosevelt Arch states.

Having partners on public lands also does not mean the tour bus will look like a race car covered in corporate stickers. Some of our most iconic features are only possible thanks to partnerships.

Expanding partnerships will allow parks and public lands to deliver better services to more visitors, while allowing our rangers to focus on things like the health of the ecosystem, guided tours, educational services, and land management.

The All-American Outdoor Experience is part of who we are as Americans, but it’s also a big economic driver for communities across the country. As a whole, the outdoor recreation industry generates $887 billion in consumer spending and supports 7.6 million American jobs, according to industry analysts. In addition, the revenue the industry produces is a major boost to our economy.

Made in America is as much about products as much as it is about the shared American experience created here. It is about making memories by taking a kid fishing for the first time, or in my case, taking my wife hiking early in our relationship.

There’s a reason why 330 million people from across the country and around the world visit our parks every year, and why millions more flock to public lands from coast to coast: It’s because these spaces are uniquely American.

This Made in America Week, let’s unite with a common pride in our country, standing behind American businesses and engaging in American outdoor traditions that have stood the test of time.

https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/opinion/columnists/iowa-view/2017/06/12/americas-energy-and-economic-destiny-up-u-s-not-u-n/389616001/

This month, President Trump took decisive action to pull the United States out of the poorly negotiated Paris Accord. The Paris Accord was a bad deal for America. The agreement, which was crafted by the United Nations and signed by the Obama administration, would kill American jobs and manufacturing and cost our economy trillions of dollars, all while doing little to actually protect the environment, according to an MIT study.

To meet the benchmarks in the Paris Accord, it's estimated the U.S. would lose $3 trillion in output, six million industrial jobs, and three million manufacturing jobs. No more. No longer will the United States sign agreements that punish American workers.

Under the Trump Administration, America's energy and economic destiny will be up to the United States, not the United Nations.


Critics say the U.S. is surrendering its role as the global leader in the fight against climate change. Chad Gillis / news-press.com

There is no debate that the government should regulate energy within its borders and that taxpayers should get fair value for the resources. But when regulation crushes American innovation and becomes a tool of political advocacy rather than public interest, we must change course.

We all agree that clean air and clean water are top priorities, but this deal was an example of another give-away to foreign interests and locks America into a permanent competitive disadvantage. America is the global leader in energy production, and we will not relinquish our stature. We have the resources and expertise to continue leading the world. To not use our resources to our complete advantage is wrong.

Developing American energy and achieving American energy dominance has three major benefits to the environment, economy, and national security:

First, it’s better for the environment that the U.S. produces energy. We can responsibly develop our energy resources and restore the land to multiple use. I’ve spent a lot of time in the Middle East, and I can tell you with 100 percent certainty it is better to develop our energy here under reasonable regulations rather than have it produced overseas under little or no regulations.
Second, energy production is a boon to the economy, supporting more than 9.8 million jobs and supplying affordable power for homes, hospitals, manufacturing, and transportation. But for too many local communities, energy development has been more of a missed opportunity and has failed to include local consultation and partnership.
And, lastly, American energy dominance will strengthen our national security by eliminating our reliance on foreign oil and allowing us to assist our allies. As a military commander, I saw how the power of American energy defeated our adversaries around the world. As a former SEAL Commander, I never want our nation’s children to see what I saw and go to war over resources we have in abundance here. Under President Trump’s leadership, we will once again develop our resources and use them as a diplomatic force to keep prices low and Americans safe.
Cities like Des Moines were built on energy, hard work and American ingenuity. This administration will not sit by as American cities and jobs are destroyed by bad deals that were negotiated by foreign countries.

It's time Washington realizes how real America operates and how the bad decisions made in the swamp have negative impacts on workers in Iowa, Texas and Alaska.

I understand people may be concerned about any environmental impact that development may have, and the president and I share that concern. However, good stewardship of our lands and waters and responsible use of our natural resources are not mutually exclusive.

For example: I was just in Alaska where Native Alaskan leaders expressed to me their long-held desire to increase oil and gas exploration in the Arctic so they can create jobs and fund their schools, hospitals and infrastructure. They showed me how advancements in technology make it possible to extract resources from the ground with only a small footprint on the surface. This allows for both energy development and continued traditional uses of the land.

Long gone are the days where oil, gas, and coal extraction means flipping a stream bed upside down. I've gone horseback riding across the rolling hills in Montana. While once there was a coal mine there, today the hills are covered with trees, wildflowers and wildlife, proving we can extract resources and reclaim the land for future multiple use. That's the power of American ingenuity, smart regulations and reclamation plans.

The United States is already a clean energy leader without the Paris Accord. Industry leaders have continually worked to cut emissions and become more efficient because it's good for the planet and good for business. Working with industry partners and local governments, I am confident that advancements in technology and smart regulations will allow the United States to continue responsible energy development and production and also continue to lower emissions.

https://missoulian.com/news/opinion/columnists/leading-interior-a-great-honor-responsibility/article_757a143b-1e4f-5733-9da3-2b6c7ee88499.html

As a son of a plumber and a kid who grew up in a small timber and railroad town next to Glacier National Park in Montana, I am humbled to be the president-elect’s designee for secretary of the Interior. I am also humbled because of the great responsibility the position holds to be the steward of majestic public lands, the champion of our great Indian nations, and the manager and voice of our diverse wildlife.

Upfront, I am an unapologetic admirer of Teddy Roosevelt and believe he had it right when he placed under federal protection millions of acres of federal lands and set aside much of it as national forests. Today, much of those lands provide Americans the opportunity to hike, fish, camp, recreate and enjoy the great outdoors. It was on those lands that my father taught me to fish and hunt and the Boy Scouts taught me the principles of environmental stewardship and the importance of public assets.

It is also these lands that many communities, like Whitefish, the town I grew up in, rely on to harvest timber, mine and to provide our nation with energy. Without question, our public lands are America’s treasure and are rich in diversity. I fully recognize and appreciate that there are lands that deserve special recognition and are better managed under the John Muir model of wilderness, where man is more of an observer than an active participant. I also recognize that the preponderance of our federal holdings are better suited to be managed under the Pinchot model of multiple use using best practices, sustainable policies and objective science.

During the recent centennial of our National Park Service, I found myself at the ceremony in Gardiner at Yellowstone National Park, our first national park established by Congress and signed into law by President Ulysses S. Grant on March 1, 1872. As I enjoyed the celebration under the famous Roosevelt Arch, I could not help but notice the words etched in the stone at the top of the arch: “For the benefit and enjoyment of the people.” And, on the side of the right pillar was a plaque with the words, “Created by Act of Congress.”

I thought, what a perfect symbol of what our land policy in a nation as great as ours should be. The lesson here is this. It takes both sides to create an arch that serves higher purpose and that higher purpose is best achieved through the approval and consent of Congress. In a nutshell, that is my commitment to you. If confirmed, I will work with Congress to ensure the use of our public lands reflects higher purpose so that our children’s children can look back and say, “We did it right.”

I have met with almost every member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and understand that each state is different, and each has different priorities and issues. I am confident we can work together to get the job done.

When asked about what my goals might be, I would say there are three immediate tasks.

The first is to restore trust by working with rather than against local communities and states. I fully recognize that there is distrust, anger and even hatred against some federal management policies. Being a listening advocate rather than a deaf adversary is a good start.

Second is to prioritize the estimated $12.5 billion in backlog of maintenance and repair in our national parks. The president-elect is committed to a jobs and infrastructure bill, and I am going to need your help in making sure that bill includes shoring up our nation's treasures.

And third, to ensure the professionals on the front line, our rangers and field managers, have the right tools, right resources and flexibility to make the right decisions that give a voice to the people they serve.

As a former Montana state senator and current congressman, I have learned a lot since I was a SEAL in the deserts of Iraq. To accomplish my mission as secretary of Interior, I know that I am going to need Congress’ help, confidence and perhaps even prayers. And, if confirmed, I look forward to representing the interests of our great nation and giving a voice to all Americans, to include our great Indian nations, on how we manage and sustain our public lands and treasures they contain.

https://missoulian.com/news/opinion/columnists/all-montanans-deserve-st-century-cures/article_634328af-3fc1-50b4-a8f6-aa5b9646ae94.html

Too often health care gets wrapped up in political debate while forgetting the actual needs of people. The reality is that there are people hurting and they deserve help. My family and I know this all too well.

Just over a month ago, my mother-in-law passed away after a long battle with Alzheimer’s. Consuelo was an amazing, brilliant woman. She was appointed by President Eisenhower as Honorary Consul to Peru, she was one of the most kind, hospitable people I’ve ever known and she raised an amazing daughter who embodies all of her best qualities. Her battle with Alzheimer’s had a true impact on me. The reality is that health care is not simply a debate. It’s real people, real needs and they deserve a system that cares for them.

Since coming to Congress, health care has remained at the forefront for Montanans. Whether it’s skyrocketing premiums, problems with Obamacare, or lapses in care, it’s obvious that the status quo isn’t working. Our country must create a system that helps the most vulnerable while incentivizing solutions. As a freshman member, I’ve made it my mission to accomplish these goals. With a Republican Congress and Democrat president, my focus has been on policies that highlight our commonalities, and I’ve focused my attention on three bills:

First, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA): Montana and America have been struck with opioid and heroin addiction. Often times, good people are lured in by prescription drugs and then hooked into a viscous cycle of dependency. This comprehensive bill creates a task force of agencies to identify best practices for prescribing pain medication and establishes specialized grants for local governments, tribes, nonprofits and care centers. These investments will help protect, treat and heal our neighbors.

Second, the 21st Century Cures Act: This bill is designed to help accelerate the discovery, development and delivery of new treatments and cures while solidifying America’s standing as the medical innovation capital of the world. There are 10,000 known diseases, but we only have cures for 500 of them. This bill specifically targets research and development for the deadliest cancers, brain disease and drug research. It’s imperative that we make critical investments so patients and families can be spared the devastating news of an incurable disease.

Third, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act: Mental illness affects all segments of society. Nearly 10 million Americans have serious mental illness, but too many go without treatment as families struggle to find care for loved ones. This bill makes critical investments in care, increases hospital space for mental health patients, incentivizes early detection and suicide prevention programs, and prioritizes rural care and telemedicine.

After hearing from Montanans and based on my own family’s experience, I was thrilled to support and help introduce each of these bills. They will help the most vulnerable; those who are truly in need. In July, we scored a major victory when CARA was signed into law. Resources are already flowing into Montana to combat the drug abuse problem.

This year, the House overwhelmingly passed the Mental Health Reform package and the 21st Century Cures Act, but both sat idle in the Senate because of Harry Reid’s gridlock. That is unacceptable, but we remained persistent. We took another swing at the ball and this past week we packaged the two bills together, passed them again and now they await action in the Senate. I hope my Senate colleagues support these common-sense reforms and get them to the president’s desk.

When I came to Congress, I never would’ve guessed I’d end up championing healthcare reforms. My 23 years in the Navy prepared me for many tasks, but health care wasn’t at the top of the list. However, one thing it did teach me was teamwork is always the best way to accomplish a mission. After my family’s experience, I’ve been inspired to action. This was a true team effort, one that I was proud to support in every way I could. This is just the beginning. As we look toward the next Congress, I hope we continue reaching across the aisle in the spirit of progress.

https://missoulian.com/news/opinion/columnists/zinke-what-this-election-comes-down-to/article_79c77d57-2655-5f5b-bfa8-f5ce65aa6b2a.html

As a 23-year U.S. military commander, I’ve always been mission-focused, and no mission is too big or too small to take on with everything I have. Whether it’s hunting terrorists in the Middle East, winterizing the house, or fighting for Montana in Congress, I always take the same mission-critical approach as your representative in Congress.

For the past 21 months, you’ve tasked me with the mission to strengthen Montana’s voice in Congress. It’s no secret that Montana priorities were being ignored. Before you sent me to Congress, we didn’t have a long-term highway bill. The Land and Water Conservation Fund expired. Tax credits for middle-class families, small businesses, agriculture and our tribes expired; and a whole host of Montana priorities, like crop insurance and timber reform, were simply not part of the agenda. I’m happy to say I successfully fought for, and won, on every single one of these issues.

My opponent likes to criticize me for talking to CNN or bringing the presidential nominee to Billings; but the truth is, our state only has one representative. It’s my job to make Montana's one voice louder than the 53 from California. I will never apologize for elevating Montana.

In Congress, I write legislation that helps Montana prosper. One such bill is the Certainty for States and Tribes Act, which would end the Obama administration’s arbitrary moratorium on federal coal leases and give local and tribal stakeholders a seat at the table when it comes to management of our resources. I also led the first real forest reform legislation in a decade. My bill, the bipartisan Resilient Federal Forests Act, will revitalize our timber communities and help prevent the catastrophic wildfires by rewarding local collaborative efforts, fixing the wildfire borrowing problem and holding special-interest litigators accountable.

Unfortunately, neither bills have been signed into law because Senate Democrats, led by Harry Reid, have dug their heels in and refused to get anything done.

My entire career has been dedicated to the constitutional oath I took to protect and defend our nation. I spent 23 years keeping Montana families safe as a U.S. Navy SEAL. Any of the 100,000 Montanans who have served will tell you that’s not an instinct that leaves you just because you retire from the military.

Before the Paris terrorist attacks, I saw ISIS displace millions of individuals from the Middle East and warned of the security risk it poses - nobody listened. Then Paris happened. Then Brussels happened. Then Turkey and Beirut. Then the attacks of San Bernardino, Orlando and New York City.

By the Obama administration's own admission, the vetting process wasn't being completed with 100 percent certainty. In an effort to prevent future attacks by terrorists infiltrating the incoming refugee population, I helped create the American SAFE Act. This bill stops the refugee program until the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security can guarantee that refugees are fully and accurately vetted before coming to the United States. If these agencies can’t guarantee the background of each individual, then the individual is not admitted. I vetted individuals in war-torn areas for decades. I know that just because a file is empty, does not mean the person is not a threat.

The SAFE Act puts American families’ safety first. It passed with a veto-proof, bipartisan majority. Yet again, it met the same fate in Senate, dying at the hands of Senate Democrats.

During an election year, it’s tough to push aside the negative ads and hyped-up rhetoric. I wish both our presidential candidates would stop with the personal attacks and focus on the issues: jobs, the economy and national security.

I don’t think my opponent is a bad person. I just think she has bad ideas. I do think she cares about our country, but I think we tried her ideas the past eight years with President Obama and they didn’t work.

What this election really comes down to is a simple choice: If you think that Montana needs higher taxes, more expensive energy, restricted freedoms and a weaker position around the globe, then vote for my opponent. If you believe in a strong national defense, know the power of Montana’s clean coal and think that Montana – not Washington, D.C. – knows what’s best, then I’d sure appreciate your vote.

