https://riograndeguardian.com/perdue-usmca-a-trade-deal-for-the-21st-century/

One of the core promises that swept President Donald Trump into office was that he would renegotiate better deals for the United States with our traditional trading partners.

With the announcement of a new trade pact among the United States, Mexico and Canada, we welcomed the tremendous news that the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) will be, if approved by Congress, replaced by a much stronger agreement.

Known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), the package will be important for American workers and our economy as a whole, including the agricultural sector, which counts Mexico and Canada in our top three trading partners. 

I have long said that I believe our country is located in the best neighborhood on Earth – North America – with valuable allies to our north and south. Though the old NAFTA agreement was considered a generally positive compact for agriculture, there was certainly room for much-needed improvement. Under USMCA, we have created new rules to help our farmers, ranchers and workers better face the challenges of the 21st century economy, which will secure greater access to the Mexican and Canadian markets and maintain and improve the highly productive integrated agricultural relationships we have as nations. 

The agreement with Mexico came first, near the end of August, and includes a number of provisions sought by the United States. Importantly, 21st century innovations in agricultural biotechnology are addressed for the first time, including cutting-edge processes like gene editing. These innovations serve as a template for agreements in the future. And we mutually pledge to work together to reduce trade-distorting policies, increase transparency and ensure nondiscriminatory treatment in grading of agricultural products. In addition, the United States and Mexico agreed not to use so-called “geographic indicators” to restrict the marketing of certain cheeses under common names, such as provolone, Swiss, or ricotta, which the European Union had wanted to restrict. 

The second piece of the USMCA puzzle was the negotiation with Canada, where key sticking points centered on dairy issues and were among the last to be cleared. Notably, as one of the president’s top goals, the new agreement will eliminate Canada’s unfair “Class 6” and “Class 7” milk pricing schemes, in which Canada has used low-priced products to undercut United States dairy sales in Canada and other international markets. The deal will also crack open additional access to United States dairy into Canada, including products like fluid milk, cream, butter, skim milk and cheese, and will also preserve and expand critical access for United States poultry and egg producers. America’s wheat farmers also get a big win. A reform of Canada’s discriminatory wheat grading process will help United States wheat growers along the border become more competitive. These are all significant victories for American agriculture. 

As we celebrate this breakthrough, it is worth noting that there were many detractors who said it could not be done. But the emergence of an agreement is further proof that President Trump’s trade negotiation strategy is working. To strike the best deals possible for the United States, the president has shown that he is willing to walk away from the bargaining table if he feels our country is being unfairly treated. In the case of USMCA, the president’s approach resulted in earnest negotiations among the three nations and a final package which is beneficial for all three countries. 

This is not the first major step forward in international trade under the Trump administration, nor do we feel it will be the last. Before President Trump successfully concluded USCMA, he made good on his promise to revise and improve KORUS, the trade pact with the Republic of Korea. Add to these achievements the president’s recent announcement of his intention to negotiate a trade deal with Japan – a significant market for United States agriculture exports that, until recently, had rejected talks of a bilateral agreement with the United States – and growing optimism for a successful trade deal with the European Union, and it is easy to see the dominoes falling. The president is committed to achieving good trade deals for America – including our current issues with China, which I believe we will surmount as well. 

The bottom line is this: Free, fair and expanded trade among nations is good for the American economy and our highly productive farmers, ranchers, foresters and producers. The newly minted USMCA goes in the win column for President Trump and his negotiating team, led by our United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer. Our economy, and American agriculture, will be better off for it. 

https://hoards.com/article-24262-usda-secretary-perdue-speaks-on-dairy-trade.html

One of the core promises that swept President Donald Trump into office was that he would renegotiate better deals for the United States with our traditional trading partners. With the announcement of a new trade pact among the United States, Mexico, and Canada, we welcomed the tremendous news that the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) will be, if approved by Congress, replaced by a much stronger agreement.

Known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), the package will be important for American workers and our economy as a whole, including the agricultural sector, which counts Mexico and Canada in our top three trading partners.

I have long said that I believe our country is located in the best neighborhood on Earth — North America — with valuable allies to our north and south. Though the old NAFTA agreement was considered a generally positive compact for agriculture, there was certainly room for much-needed improvement.

Under USMCA, we have created new rules to help our farmers, ranchers, and workers better face the challenges of the 21st century economy, which will secure greater access to Mexican and Canadian markets and maintain and improve the highly productive, integrated agricultural relationships we have as nations.

Protects cheese names in Mexico;
The agreement with Mexico came first, near the end of August, and includes a number of provisions sought by the United States. Importantly, 21st century innovations in agricultural biotechnology are addressed for the first time, including cutting-edge processes like gene editing. These innovations serve as a template for agreements in the future. And we mutually pledge to work together to reduce trade-distorting policies, increase transparency, and ensure non-discriminatory treatment in grading of agricultural products.

In addition, the United States and Mexico agreed not to use so-called “geographic indicators” to restrict the marketing of certain cheeses under common names, such as Provolone, Swiss, or Ricotta, which the European Union had wanted to restrict.

Eliminates Class 7 in Canada;
The second piece of the USMCA puzzle was the negotiation with Canada, where key sticking points centered on dairy issues and were among the last to be cleared. Notably, as one of the president’s top goals, the new agreement will eliminate Canada’s unfair ‘Class 6’ and ‘Class 7’ milk pricing schemes, in which Canada has used low-priced products to undercut United States dairy sales in Canada and other international markets.

The deal will also crack open additional access of United States dairy into Canada, including products like fluid milk, cream, butter, skim milk, and cheese, and it will also preserve and expand critical access for United States poultry and egg producers.

America’s wheat farmers also get a big win. A reform of Canada’s discriminatory wheat grading process will help United States wheat growers along the border become more competitive. These are all significant victories for American agriculture.


Willing to walk away;
As we celebrate this breakthrough, it is worth noting that there were many detractors who said it could not be done. But the emergence of an agreement is further proof that President Trump’s trade negotiation strategy is working.

To strike the best deals possible for the United States, the president has shown that he is willing to walk away from the bargaining table if he feels our country is being unfairly treated. In the case of USMCA, the president’s approach resulted in earnest negotiations among the three nations and a final package, which is beneficial for all three countries.

More in store;
This is not the first major step forward in international trade under the Trump administration, nor do we feel it will be the last. Before President Trump successfully concluded USCMA, he made good on his promise to revise and improve KORUS, the trade pact with the Republic of Korea.

Add to these achievements the president’s recent announcement of his intention to negotiate a trade deal with Japan — a significant market for United States agriculture exports that, until recently, had rejected talks of a bilateral agreement with the United States — and growing optimism for a successful trade deal with the European Union, and it is easy to see the dominoes falling. The president is committed to achieving good trade deals for America — including our current issues with China, which I believe we will surmount as well.

Free and fair
The bottom line is this: Free, fair, and expanded trade among nations is good for the American economy and our highly productive farmers, ranchers, foresters, and producers. The newly-minted USMCA goes in the win column for President Trump and his negotiating team, led by our United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer.

Our economy, and American agriculture, will be better off for it.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/agriculture-secretary-sonny-perdue-heres-how-trump-will-protect-american-farmers-hit-by-chinese-tariffs

President Trump has been standing up to China for months, sending the clear message that the United States will no longer tolerate that nation’s unfair trade practices.

Now the president has put tariffs in place in response to decades of objectionable conduct by China, including the forced transfer and outright theft of American technology and intellectual property.

President Trump is taking action on trade policy to open markets so that American farmers can compete globally. The proper response from China would be to correct its behavior to address concerns raised by the United States and other trading partners. But China instead chose to retaliate, in many cases targeting U.S. agricultural products.

President Trump has instructed me, as secretary of agriculture, to prepare a strategy to protect our agricultural interests from these unfair retaliatory tariffs. After careful analysis and thorough discussion by our team at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), we are now prepared to announce the tools we plan to use.

Trade damage from unfair retaliation has impacted American farmers who grow a host of U.S. commodities, including field crops like soybeans and sorghum, livestock products like milk and pork, and many fruits, nuts, and other specialty crops.

High tariffs disrupt normal market patterns, affecting prices and export volumes, and raise costs by forcing commodities to find new markets.

Additionally, there is evidence that American goods shipped overseas are being slowed from reaching market by unusually strict or cumbersome entry procedures, which can affect the quality and marketability of perishable crops. This can boost marketing costs and discount our prices, adversely affecting farmers.

We always suspected that American agriculture would likely be the first sector hit, because our producers are extremely productive and are excellent competitors in the world marketplace. Indeed, of the total tariffs imposed on the U.S., a disproportionate amount was targeted directly at our farmers.

In keeping with President Trump’s promise, his administration will not stand by while our hardworking men and women of agriculture are treated unfairly by countries acting in bad faith, acting as strategic economic competitors intent on breaking the rules.

Accordingly, after careful consideration of the effect of China’s actions, USDA will employ tools at our disposal to provide up to $10 billion to $12 billion in programs, which is in line with the $11 billion impact on U.S. agriculture we have calculated.

The following programs, in addition to our existing programs of farm support, will assist agricultural producers in mitigating the damage from markets disrupted by the trade dispute with China:

The Market Facilitation Program, authorized under the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) Charter Act and administered by USDA’s Farm Service Agency, will provide incremental payments to soybean, sorghum, corn, wheat, cotton, dairy and hog producers impacted by the retaliatory tariffs. These payments, which will be available starting this fall, will help farmers manage disrupted markets, deal with surplus commodities, and expand and develop new markets at home and abroad.
USDA will use the CCC Charter Act and other authorities to implement a Food Purchase and Distribution Program through the Agricultural Marketing Service to purchase unexpected surpluses of affected commodities such as fruits, nuts, rice, legumes, beef, pork, and milk for distribution to food banks and other nutrition programs. This program will be funded by existing funds in the Section 32 program and new spending under the CCC Charter Act.
The CCC will use its Charter Act authority for a Trade Promotion Program, administered by USDA’s Foreign Agriculture Service, in conjunction with the private sector to assist in developing new export markets for our farm products.
Up to this point, we have resisted disclosing the strategy under consideration under the belief that it was not good practice to unveil the playbook while the other team was watching. We are now confident that this approach is best for American agriculture while the trade dispute with China continues.

In the coming weeks, we will provide greater detail of how these programs will be utilized and how individual producers will benefit. And as I have often stated, we aim to provide all necessary information to affected producers by Labor Day. 

President Trump knows that America’s farmers, ranchers, foresters and producers work to feed, fuel and clothe this nation and the rest of the world. Farmers are patriots and they have supported the president in his defense of the overall American economy. But it is a fact that they cannot pay their bills with patriotism.

It is worth stating again that all of this could be rectified tomorrow if China would simply mend its ways. But until China decides to play by the rules that govern free and fair trade, the Trump administration will not allow agriculture to bear the brunt of China’s retaliation.

https://www.timesrecordnews.com/story/opinion/2018/07/27/opposing-view-farm-aid-offset-unjustified-retaliation/842340002/

In the Olympics, if opposing athletes continuously broke the rules while the officials let them get away with it, American fans would want our coaches to raise a fuss. That’s what has been happening in the arena of international trade, and President Donald Trump is rightly calling out our competitors for unfair play.

In response, we have been slapped with unjust retaliatory tariffs, aimed disproportionately at American farmers. President Trump has pledged to stand by American farmers, and the Department of Agriculture is helping to fulfill that promise. We will aid our producers in mitigating trade damages caused by retaliation, which is a short-term solution to give the president time to work on trade deals to benefit agriculture and all sectors of the American economy in the long run. President Trump is taking action on trade policy to open markets so American farmers can compete globally.

Instead of retaliatory tariffs, the correct Chinese response would be to stop their bad behavior. The Trump administration’s action to stand by our agricultural producers is a clear message that China cannot bully farmers to coerce the United States to cave in.

USDA will be authorizing up to $12billion in programs, which is directly in line with the estimated impact of the unjustified tariffs on agriculture. These programs, in addition to our existing farm support programs, will help farmers meet the costs of disrupted markets resulting from unjustified retaliation. The assistance may come in three forms: incremental payments to producers impacted by the retaliatory tariffs, purchase and distribution of commodities to food banks and other nutrition programs, and trade promotion, in conjunction with the private sector, to develop new export markets.

There is no question that farmers prefer free trade over government aid. What we are seeking is a level playing field, where our agricultural home team will always be the best competitors and have the best chance to succeed on the world market.

https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/06/25/donald-trump-china-tariff-retaliation-intellectual-property-agriculture-farm-perdue-column/725447002/

In 2011, a group of Chinese nationals dug up genetically engineered seeds from an Iowa corn field and planned to steal and send them back to China, so they could be reverse engineered. Those seeds, the result of years of research and millions of dollars of American investment, now stand as one of countless pieces of evidence in the case against China for intellectual property theft and unfair trade practices.

Now, President Donald Trump is standing up to China, which wrongly believes it can bully our farmers to get America to back away from defending our national interests. The president understands that our farmers feed, fuel and clothe this nation and the world, and he will not allow U.S. agriculture to bear the brunt of China’s retaliatory tactics.

American producers have benefited from the policies of the Trump administration, including historic tax reforms and reduced regulations. And farmers know that 20 cents of every dollar of their income relies on trade, which is why they are watching the situation with China closely. The simple truth is that when trading partners break the rules, there must be consequences. 

Pressuring China;
To stop China’s predatory attacks on America’s innovation base, President Trump is instituting a program of tariffs and is considering investment restrictions and strengthened export controls. These tariffs will help pressure the Chinese to stop engaging in unfair practices and fully open up its markets to U.S. products, including U.S. technologies. The correct response from China would be to stop stealing from Americans and give American products a level playing field to compete in China, not to retaliate and reinforce its own position. 

There is no denying that the disruption in trade relations with China is unsettling to many in agriculture, but if the president succeeds in changing China’s behavior, America’s farmers will reap the benefits. 

In the meantime, the president has instructed me to craft a strategy to support our farmers in the face of retaliatory tariffs. At the U.S. Department of Agriculture, we have tools at our disposal to support farmers faced with losses that might occur due to downturns in commodities markets. To this point, we have not unveiled our strategy, as it is not good practice to open our playbook while the opposing team is watching. 

But farmers should know this: They have stood with President Trump and his policies, and we will make good on our promise to stand with them as well. If China does not soon mend its ways, we will quickly begin fulfilling our promise to support producers, who have become casualties of these disputes.

Without question, there is much at stake for this nation in trade disagreements. A bullying and predatory China has made no secret of the fact that it seeks to acquire America’s technological crown jewels by any means necessary — through physical and cybertheft, forced technology transfer, evasion of our export controls, and state-directed and -funded investment in sensitive technology. And while it may seem outrageous, China has rejected American genetically engineered products, while sending agents crawling in corn fields to pilfer samples of our technology and even purchasing a company that provides U.S. farmers with key genetically engineered seeds.

Economic future;
President Trump has said correctly that if China captures the industries of tomorrow, America will not have an economic future to look forward to — and our national security will be severely compromised. Cutting-edge technologies — from artificial intelligence, autonomous vehicles and biotechnology to aerospace, high-tech shipping and robotics — are critical to our defense. We are faced with a decision: Will others determine our destiny, or will we control our own future?

China began raiding our economy long before a team of thieves infiltrated that Iowa corn field, but President Trump aims to stop the larceny now. The president is a tough negotiator, and I am confident that American agriculture will flourish because of trade relationships that are smarter, stronger and better than before. China might underestimate the strength and resolve of American farmers, but the president does not. And he will not allow our agricultural producers to suffer because of China’s continued bad actions.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/trump-administration-stands-behind-ag-producers/

It’s been just over a year since I was sworn in as secretary of Agriculture. Having now traveled to 38 states, I have spent countless hours with the hardworking farmers, ranchers, foresters and producers who make up the American agriculture industry. Every stop along the way, I’ve found myself humbled by the work being done, day in and day out, to create the bountiful American harvest we all enjoy. Most importantly, it has been an honor to help reiterate President Donald Trump’s message that the men and women of rural America are a top priority for this administration.

Last week, we headed across New Mexico, Colorado, Wyoming and Nebraska on my fourth “Back to Our Roots” tour. These tours are a welcome opportunity to get out of Washington and connect with those outside the noise of the infamous Beltway. Throughout my travels, I’ve heard from the people living in rural America about what they want out of this administration: a boost in the economy, a decrease in burdensome regulations, an increase in trade and a farm bill that works for America’s agriculture community.

My message to rural America is always the same: President Trump hears you and is working to make your life better.

In the last 16 months, the policies of the Trump administration have proven his commitment to rural America and the American farmer. His pro-growth policies are fueling the economy. We’ve seen strong farm exports, illustrating worldwide demand.

With an aggressive approach on trade and expanding markets, we should see improved commodity prices. Meanwhile, thousands of young and beginning farmers are signing up for the Beginning Farmers Loan Program.

The agriculture community is already seeing benefits from the president’s historic tax cuts and reforms. Farmers, ranchers and producers are now able to keep more of what they earn and can reinvest in their operations. The critical changes to the death tax will exempt the majority of family farms. It’s an old unfunny joke that farmers live cash poor but die land rich, and that is something we want to change.

For far too long rural America has struggled under the weight of burdensome regulations, written by bureaucrats behind desks in Washington. The Trump administration has been eliminating these regulations at a record pace, slashing 22 existing regulations for every new one that comes on the books. This administration has shown its commitment to renewing prosperity and restoring opportunity across America.

While we have made great strides, there is still work to be done.

There’s a good bit of anxiety out there in the farmland with regard to trade. President Trump knows that America’s farmers, ranchers, foresters and producers are the ones that feed, fuel and clothe the nation and the rest of the world.

For decades China has not played by the rules. China has maintained unwarranted barriers and trade-distorting policies harming U.S. agricultural products, just like it has with many other U.S. goods. By finally standing up to China, this administration is seeking better market access for our farmers.

The president also recognizes that agriculture is often the tip of the spear when there is retaliation, and for that reason he has directed me to use the authorities we have to protect farmers and farm income. The president and I will not allow our agriculture producers to bear the brunt of China’s retaliation.

We also need to ensure Congress passes a farm bill that works for America’s agriculture community. America’s farmers, ranchers and producers are resilient, but they need the support from a farm bill to serve as a safety net in tough times and keep them on equal footing with their competitors around the globe.

I am confident that we can accomplish these tasks and much more because President Trump has been a champion for rural America since day one. I’ve been proud to serve as the face of his administration to the agriculture community.

As we continue to work together “to do right and feed everyone” we must not forget those who feed and clothe the world on a daily basis. By reducing regulation, increasing trade, and passing a strong farm bill, Washington can truly do right for those who feed and clothe everyone.

https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/agriculture-secretary-sonny-perdue-trump-is-reducing-poverty-and-promoting-opportunity

The American people are generous and compassionate, and for generations they have supported their fellow citizens through programs established by government to help people in need. While these programs have helped many individuals and families, too often they have prevented economic independence, prolonged poverty and weakened societal bonds.

President Trump has issued an executive order aimed at reducing reliance on government programs and restoring the dignity of independence to millions of Americans. The executive order – titled Reducing Poverty in America by Promoting Opportunity and Economic Mobility – will help increase self-sufficiency, well-being and prosperity.

As the secretary of agriculture, I am committed to making sure that the programs for which I am responsible meet this new orientation. My great confidence in the president’s course reflects my experience as Georgia’s governor during the Great Recession.

Many of those years were economically tough for the people of my state. Benefits such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), then called Food Stamps, were important to families that had lost jobs.

We served families well, getting them the food benefits they needed. But as important, we also strongly supported their effort to find new jobs. With training, child care and transportation, we helped Georgians move past the temporary need for food stamps to return to the workforce.

Too many states have abandoned this goal of self-sufficiency. Many have asked to waive work requirements, abdicating their responsibilities to move people out of dependence on government programs. This may have been the easy, short-term choice, but it contributed to a long-term failure for many SNAP participants and their families.

We must do better and work with our state partners that administer SNAP to advance the principle of work for those who are able, with the ultimate goal of independence for American families.

Long-term government dependency has never been part of the American dream. USDA’s goal is to help individuals and families move from SNAP back to the workforce as the best long-term solution to poverty.

Everyone who receives SNAP deserves an opportunity to attain self-sufficiency. Some may be unable to work due to disability or other legitimate reasons. As designed, the SNAP safety net will be there for them when needed most.

The states are our partners in providing the nutrition people need, but we must also hold them accountable for transitioning able-bodied recipients permanently into the workforce. With the president’s executive order, we reaffirm our mission of helping people move from dependence to employment.

Simply put, the dignity of work and responsibility makes lives better. We recognize, however, that finding success is by no means an easy path. Many SNAP participants face significant barriers to employment, and helping them will require effort, persistence and imagination for all those involved. It may also require coordinating directly with employers to train workers for jobs that are in demand.

The intent of the president’s Executive Order is to enhance the dignity of every individual, assisting those truly in need with compassion, and treating all with fairness. It is about helping people to move out of poverty and near poverty. And most importantly, it is the right thing to do. The president’s leadership propels us to action.

Our informal motto at USDA embodies the president’s vision – “Do right, and feed everyone.”  The world’s most productive farms and ranches, and a vigorous economy, give us the opportunity to put safe and abundant food within the reach of all Americans.

When hard times come, we can help our neighbors. But to do right, we must make it possible for every American to take responsibility for an independent future. We at USDA are proud to join President Trump in making this vision a reality.

http://newtoncountytimes.com/news/trump-has-not-forgotten-rural-america-s-needs-contributions/article_97419820-3f45-11e8-af5c-07da0fee94df.html

While Congress continues its work on the Farm Bill, rural prosperity, and many other agriculture priorities, this administration remains committed to being a voice for America’s farmers, ranchers, producers, and foresters.

In the 11 months since I was sworn in as U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, I have traveled to 35 states, helping fulfill President Donald Trump’s promise that the men and women of America, who once felt forgotten, never will again.

First, [President] Trump is committed to ensuring our economy grows and thrives. That is why he led the fight to pass historic tax cuts and reforms back in December, which are already benefiting the agriculture community. When it comes to trading goods and products with our partners and allies, this administration is committed to sending the bounty of American harvest around the globe.

Second, as we all know, our economy cannot succeed without a capable and legal workforce. Trump understands we must have an equipped and competitive workforce. That is one reason why he signed an executive order establishing the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity, which I proudly chaired.

Our task force also stressed the importance of assisting our workforce through infrastructure reforms. Enacting Trump’s infrastructure plan would create jobs for our rural workforce and unleash our economy’s full potential. Infrastructure has been the core of American economic success for more than two centuries. America’s infrastructure needs attention; our nation’s prosperity is at stake.

Finally, if we are going to encourage the next generation to step forward, we must first tackle the burdensome regulations facing today’s industry. Throughout this tour, I have heard from farmers and ranchers who are hamstrung by meddlesome rules. They know that Trump has aggressively and effectively dismantled unnecessary barriers to productivity, eliminating 22 federal regulations for every new rule added. Trump’s regulatory agenda meets the needs of rural Americans who are held back by harmful decisions that came from Washington.

https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/opinion/columnists/iowa-view/2018/02/19/rural-america-see-major-benefits-trumps-infrastructure-plan/352776002/


Throughout American history, we have been recognized as a global leader in many areas, but we are in distinct danger of squandering advantages we hold over other countries when it comes to our infrastructure system.

Once the envy of the world, our infrastructure is crumbling and inadequate, and our nation risks slipping behind in economic achievement.

Under President Trump’s “Building a Stronger America” infrastructure agenda, we can restore our position in the world and steer America back to prosperity, particularly in rural America. 

This month, two Iowans joined President Trump at the White House when he rolled out his proposal to reestablish America’s economic prowess with a new transformation – the rebuilding, expansion and modernization of our nation’s roads, rails, waterways and utilities. He committed $200 billion in new federal funding that will catalyze at least $1.5 trillion in infrastructure investment nationwide, allowing state and local governments to make investment decisions based on what’s needed in their communities.

Importantly, President Trump committed $50 billion, or a quarter of all newly announced federal funding, solely to modernizing and repairing the vital infrastructure of rural America.

Iowa has strong leadership at the state level, including Gov. Kim Reynolds, who has helped prioritize infrastructure improvements.

In my nine months in office, I have traveled to 33 states, including Iowa, taking a hard look at the challenges and opportunities in rural communities and hearing from rural citizens. At every stop, I heard about the dire need to expand broadband access, rebuild aging roads and bridges, provide clean water, and supply affordable, reliable power. 

Specifically, I heard from people in agricultural communities who could use better transportation for moving American farmers and ranchers'  amazing bounty and enhancing access to their suppliers and customers, both domestically and internationally.  Only with reliable and efficient infrastructure can rural America’s bounty be brought to market at home and abroad.  

Here is the challenge: More than half of the locks and dams operated by the Army Corps of Engineers are more than 60 years old; they are unable to handle the 565 million tons of freight, including agricultural products, now flowing on our inland waterways.  The resultant traffic congestion and repairs are causing twice as many hours of delay than in the year 2000.  Road and rail upgrades are also necessary to shorten trips by trucks and freight trains — as are improvements in inland and maritime ports to speed commodity shipments around the world.

The Department of Agriculture’s infrastructure interests also include financing rural utilities, which create jobs by connecting manufacturing and production sites to modern electric grids and water systems.  Communities unable to offer safe and reliable water, wastewater facilities, and efficient electricity cannot hope to grow businesses or attract new employers to their area.  I was encouraged by Iowa’s leaders, who recently found a bipartisan path toward improving Iowa’s water quality with new resources.  This is the type of innovation and leadership we need across the nation.

Expanding rural broadband to connect America’s rural areas to the “interstate highway system” of global commerce sits atop the infrastructure priority list.  To remain internationally competitive, American farms need reliable, real-time internet connectivity to oversee operations in the fields, manage finances, and respond to international market conditions.  Precision agriculture can facilitate tremendous cost savings and increases in yields, but these benefits can be realized only if every part of the farm is connected to the worldwide web.  Additionally, broadband infrastructure for high-speed internet access is key for rural communities to remain attractive places to live for young people who want to easily and affordably stay connected with their smartphones and tablets.

Again, Iowa is leading the way, as Gov. Reynolds recently tasked Lt. Gov. Adam Gregg to lead the Rural Iowa Initiative. He participated in the White House Conference on Rural Prosperity last month and we eagerly await reports on that work to improve Iowa’s rural economy.

The benefits of the president’s proposal are even more exciting.  Aside from improving the quality of life for the people who live in non-urban parts of our country, President Trump’s American infrastructure initiative will create jobs for Americans. Such investment will increase our gross domestic product and boost the economy for all, including rural Americans.

At USDA, our informal motto is “Do right and feed everyone,” but we also fully endorse the president’s goal of restoring the “Made in America” label to the products we purchase and use.  Neither is possible without modern 21st century infrastructure connecting our rural communities to each other, to our nation’s metropolitan areas, and to the world.

https://siouxcityjournal.com/news/national/govt-and-politics/perdue-rural-broadband-is-our-duty-to-farmers/article_b8428187-af3c-51b0-8894-375666cac24c.html

Farmers, ranchers, foresters, and producers know that the overall economy is booming again, and for that we are thankful and optimistic. But it is clear when you drive through the byways, small towns, and farmlands of our nation that rural America has not kept pace.

Urban and suburban populations continue to climb across the country, while the population in rural areas has remained stagnant. Integrating technological innovation into American farms will enhance the quality of our agricultural output, increase sustainable use of precious natural resources and improve the efficiency of the American farmer.

A task force created by President Trump has developed many recommendations for addressing this issue, but it has found one overarching challenge that we must overcome to ensure future rural prosperity. We must deploy high-speed internet access to rural America. E-connectivity is a tool that enables increased productivity for farms, factories, forests, and small businesses, and is fundamental for economic development and an improved quality of life. It allows medical, educational, and business services to travel virtually to remote areas and can enrich rural life immeasurably.

Others have previously identified this need, but the problem still remains.

We knew of no better way of assessing the situation than to speak to the people of the heartland directly, which we did by holding town hall meetings, listening sessions, and roundtables in farming communities across the country. As we surveyed the feedback we received, it became clear that people believed that folks in Washington, D.C., had stopped listening to rural America over the years. Rural Americans were tired of slogans, lip service and benign or blatant disregard of their ideals and recommendations.

President Trump left no doubt that he cared for rural America when on April 25, 2017 -- my first day as Secretary of Agriculture -- he signed an executive order establishing the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity. It has been a task force I have been proud to chair, and we took seriously our charge: to investigate circumstances in rural areas of the country, to formulate concrete solutions to situations limiting prosperity and to report back to the President.

Anyone who knows how the President operates will understand that this was an executive order, not an executive suggestion. We have publicly presented our final report to President Trump.

It is fitting that the President accepted our findings at the American Farm Bureau Federation's annual meeting in Nashville. Formed of 22 cabinet departments and federal agencies, the task force enthusiastically embraced the challenges before it: to understand the issues that keep rural America from thriving, to develop a set of solutions to address those issues, and to tear down the walls within levels of government which inhibit that growth.

By the time the report was prepared for the President, we had identified over 100 actions the federal government should consider undertaking to ensure growth in America's heartland. We organized these solutions around five key indicators: connectivity, quality of life, rural workforce, technological innovation, and economic development. Taken together, these proposals create a road map to reinvigorate rural America's economy and its most precious resources — its people.

Each recommendation intersects with and complements the others, but the task force found one overarching need: improved high-speed internet access.

To increase access to broadband in rural areas, we must incentivize private capital investment, including the use of public-private partnerships. We must also invest in making high-speed Internet infrastructure more attractive by streamlining arduous review, approval, and permitting processes.

We have a duty to harness technological innovation to improve the quality, nutritional value, and safety of American crops. An improved strategy for research and development of new agricultural technologies will be key, as will be a unified US approach toward convincing our trading partners of the value of safe biotech products.

And it is imperative that we increase access to capital in rural America, repair crumbling infrastructure and reduce regulatory burdens to foster greater economic development. We should create opportunities that are attractive to the private sector by bundling projects to increase scale, allowing new obligations in federal and state loan programs, and promoting regional and state collaboration on projects. These actions will help us meet our goal of empowering rural America.

We realistically envision a rural America with world-class resources, tools, and supports to build robust, sustainable communities for generations to come. These are not simple tasks, and they will require the coordination and partnership of federal, state, and local governments, the private sector, individuals, and families across our great land.

If we are to be successful, we will need the continuing input and support of the people in rural communities who work hard every day to feed, clothe, and fuel America and the world. The task force has worked diligently to pinpoint the needs of rural America -- going forward, the White House and I will be wholly committed to ensuring that these needs are met. I invite you to read our final report and join us in this noble cause.

