https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm542

Monday marks the heaviest economic pressure ever applied by the US against the Iranian regime. This effort is but a part of the US government’s strategy to change the behaviour of Ayatollah Khamenei, and Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps. 

In the early hours of Monday, the Treasury department will complete its full snapback of sanctions on Iran, targeting the energy, shipping and banking sectors, among others. We are also adding back hundreds of targets previously removed from sanctions lists, as well as more than 300 new targets. 

This will end the relief the Barack Obama administration granted in the false hope of a change in the Iranian regime’s behaviour.

These actions are an important step towards holding the world’s largest state sponsor of terror accountable for its malign behaviour, human rights abuses, ballistic missiles development, and systematic efforts to exploit the global financial system to fund its revolutionary ambitions.

With the full re-imposition of sanctions, this administration is closing a chapter on a nuclear deal that President Donald Trump deemed “one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into”. Under the terms of the ill-fated “Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action”, the Obama administration and other participants agreed that, in exchange for a pause in Iran’s nuclear ambitions, countries would lift sanctions and reopen international markets to Iran.

The hope and goal was that Iran’s leaders would use this influx of investment to lift up their people. Instead, the regime did what it always does: poured money into supporting terrorism, fomenting violence and promoting regional instability.

From its support of Syria’s brutal Bashar al-Assad regime and the Houthis in Yemen, to missile attacks on its neighbours, the Iranian regime actually grew more aggressive. Its increasingly brazen actions highlighted the deal’s fundamental flaws and reinforced the decision to withdraw.

To implement the president’s decision, the US is adding more than 700 names to our list of blocked entities. Sanctions lifted under the original deal’s terms will be re-imposed on individuals, entities, vessels and aircraft that touch various segments of Iran’s economy.

We snapped back sanctions on Iran’s energy sector, including on the sale of petroleum and petrochemicals and on transactions with the National Iranian Oil Company and other providers. Our goal is to reduce Iranian oil exports to zero as fast as possible. We continue to ramp up pressure to make this a reality.

We will impose sanctions on foreign financial institutions that knowingly engage in certain significant transactions with the Central Bank of Iran and designated Iranian financial institutions. We know that these transactions are critical to a network that fuels the radical ambitions of the IRGC and its Quds Force, which siphons millions of dollars away from legitimate activities to fund terrorism across the region. 

These powerful sanctions are designed to cut off all sources of revenue to a regime that continues to fund terror, foment global instability, and line the pockets of its corrupt leaders. They complement this administration’s 19 rounds of recent actions against networks that recruit and train child soldiers, fund Hizbollah and support weapons proliferation.

Our efforts are already having a significant impact, subverting Iran’s efforts to fund destabilising activities and putting pressure on the Iranian economy. The value of the Iranian rial has collapsed, losing over two-thirds of its value in recent months.

The people of Iran are not the targets of these sanctions. They are the longest-suffering victims of a regime that prioritises funding of terror proxies over the wellbeing of its citizens. Our sanctions include humanitarian exemptions for the sale of food, medicine, medical devices and agricultural commodities to non-designated Iranians.

The Treasury will strictly enforce our sanctions. We will not tolerate banks, companies or other entities that seek to circumvent our actions. We will view them as complicit in funding Iran’s malign ambitions. 

The US will lead a maximum-pressure campaign to stop global funds from flowing to the Iranian regime until it is no longer a threat to international security. Our pressure campaign is designed to bring the Iranian regime to the table to achieve a much better deal than the JCPOA. 

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm534

Treasury is working very closely with the OECD and our counterparts there to address issues of base erosion and fair taxation.  We believe the issues are not unique to technology companies but also relate to other companies, particularly those with valuable intangibles.  I have instructed our team to continue their efforts in the OECD so that we can make progress on these issues quickly.  I highlight again our strong concern with countries’ consideration of a unilateral and unfair gross sales tax that targets our technology and internet companies.  A tax should be based on income, not sales, and should not single out a specific industry for taxation under a different standard.  We urge our partners to finish the OECD process with us rather than taking unilateral action in this area.

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm531

Today’s proposed regulations will expand the availability of affordable health insurance for hardworking Americans. This fulfills the commitment the President made in his October 2017 Executive Order to foster competition and choice and to provide Americans—especially employees who work at small businesses—with more options for financing their healthcare. Treasury projects that this will benefit hundreds of thousands of employers and millions of workers.

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm504

President Trump’s new National Strategy for Counterterrorism will harden the U.S. financial system against terrorist threats and promote collaboration with allies to counter international terror financing networks.  Treasury employs a broad array of tools to help disrupt terrorist attacks without putting our troops in harm’s way, and this Administration has accelerated efforts to shut down networks that terrorists use to finance their operations. Treasury will continue to apply sustained pressure on ISIS, Al-Qaeda, Hizballah and other Iran-sponsored proxies, Lashkar-E Tayyiba, and other terrorist organizations.

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm491

Treasury plays a key role in implementing the National Cyber Strategy by helping to safeguard the financial system against malign cyber activity and confronting and countering those that perpetrate it.

Treasury has used its cyber sanctions authorities to impose costs on Russia, North Korea, Iran, and others for a wide range of behavior, such as attempted interference in U.S. elections, destructive cyber attacks, and intrusions into U.S. critical infrastructure. 

Treasury works closely with private sector partners to enhance the security and resilience of the financial system and institutions through information sharing, the promulgation of best practices, and efforts to enhance response and recovery.

These efforts shine a light on malicious cyber practices, hold those involved to account, strengthen and safeguard the financial system, and amplify the actions of our partners in the National Security Council and allies abroad.

https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/trump-tax-cuts-strengthened-u-s-economy/

Six months after the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, tens of millions of hardworking Americans are experiencing an economic renewal. GDP is growing faster than it has in a decade.

Unemployment is historically low. Business and consumer optimism are reaching record highs. Hundreds of billions of dollars in investments are pouring into our country. Millions of jobs are being created. Families are keeping more of what they earn, and businesses are better able to compete in the global marketplace.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act championed by President Donald Trump and passed by Congress have been central to the current success of the economy. Tax cuts have inspired more Americans to feel optimistic, and there are now greater opportunities for them. A healthy economy with one additional percentage point of growth means trillions of dollars in economic activity benefiting hardworking taxpayers. All Americans will benefit from better career opportunities and a healthier economic environment.

When I traveled with the President during the campaign, we met with many people who explained that the economy was not working for them. We heard from these men and women and developed an economic plan to cut taxes and develop pro-growth policies for the benefit of hardworking taxpayers. We lowered rates, enhanced the standard deduction and increased the child tax credit.

Big and small businesses explained the challenges they faced while trying to grow, invest and hire in the United States. We heard that our country needed to fix our broken tax code to make the United States more competitive. We provided for immediate expensing of capital expenditures and cut business taxes.

Now, more than 500 companies have announced bonuses, higher wages, increased retirement savings and other benefits for their employees. We shifted from a worldwide system of taxation to a territorial system and incentivized companies to bring trillions of dollars back to the United States. We are already seeing hundreds of billions of dollars return. Companies are investing in facilities and jobs here in America.

In just six months, these historic tax cuts are yielding tremendous results for workers and taxpayers all across the country. The unemployment rate — currently 3.8 percent — is at an 18-year low. African American unemployment is the lowest ever recorded. Unemployment claims are at their lowest in 45 years. The Labor Department now reports for the first time that there are enough job openings in America for every unemployed person in the country.

Business optimism is soaring. The National Federation of Independent Business is reporting record levels of optimism. The Consumer Confidence Index recently reached its highest level in 17 years. The National Association of Manufacturers is reporting record-setting optimism and confidence in the future. These results demonstrate that America is open for business and that companies are eager to invest and grow in the United States.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is fulfilling our critical goals of allowing people to keep more of what they earn and improving the business environment. It restores fairness to the tax code and makes the filing process simpler. By nearly doubling the standard deduction to $12,000 for individuals and $24,000 for families, millions of American families will no longer need to itemize deductions. Millions of people will be able to file their taxes on a simple, postcard-sized return. This will reduce the time — and stress — required to file taxes every year.

The tax cuts’ positive results for the American people are here. Many provisions that have improved business competitiveness are permanent, including lower corporate rates and the shift from the worldwide system to the territorial system. Substantial economic progress and greater prosperity are already being achieved, which will mean more career opportunities, more prosperity, and a safe and secure future for Americans.

http://www2.philly.com/philly/opinion/commentary/mnuchin-tax-reform-individual-corporate-rates-economy-20171018.html

I traveled with President Trump to Harrisburg last week as he made the case for tax reform to the American people. In the audience were American truckers who transport the food that feeds the nation, the materials that build our cities and towns, and the products that keep the country moving. Truckers are on the front lines of our economy and see firsthand the struggles hardworking Americans endure.

Economic recovery is not an academic exercise. Higher growth means trillions of dollars of economic activity and opportunities enjoyed by more Americans. The Trump administration is committed to jump-starting a return to faster economic growth with a bold new tax-reform plan that will provide much-needed relief.

I am committed to tax reform, which is necessary to lead us to the sustained growth that is critical to the success of middle-income families and small businesses. If we get this right, tax reform will spur what the president has called a "middle-class miracle."

It has been more than 30 years since President Ronald Reagan passed tax reform. That was in 1986, and since then, our tax code has become uncompetitive for our modern economy. We have developed a framework to ensure that our tax code is fairer than the current system and works to create greater economic opportunities for all Americans. Individual and business tax reform will give U.S. workers the long, overdue pay raise they deserve. And a competitive tax system will stop major companies from leaving this country to do business abroad, which hurts American workers and families.

We plan to double the standard deduction for individuals to create a large "zero-tax bracket." The first $12,000 of income for individuals and $24,000 for families will not be subject to federal income tax at all. For those who already take the standard deduction, this likely means more money immediately back in your pockets. For many who spend hours itemizing and collecting receipts, this is not just money back in your pockets, it is more time for things that are important. Our plan will allow 95 percent of Americans to complete their taxes on a single, easy-to-file sheet of paper. We will also simplify the system from seven brackets to three and eliminate many special-interest loopholes. When combined with our proposed increase in the child tax credit, these changes will allow the average family to spend more money and time together, and save for a more secure future.

We must also reform our business tax system so that American companies and workers can compete in the global economy. Our current "Offshoring Model," with the highest business rate in the developed world, encourages companies to move overseas to countries with lower rates. We need to change this with an "American model" that reduces the corporate rate from 35 percent to 20 percent, incentivizing companies to create more better-paying jobs here.

Economists have found that more than 70 percent of the corporate tax burden falls on American workers. For proof, we need look no further than the impact felt by working families during the last administration. As noted recently by Council of Economic Advisors Chairman Kevin Hassett, corporate profits rose by 10.9 percent per year, but median wage growth for workers was only 0.6 percent per year. This is because firms kept 71 percent of their foreign-earned profits abroad, benefiting foreign workers instead of U.S. employees. Hassett estimates our plan will result in an increase of $4,000 in income annually for the median American family.

America was born in part because of unfair taxes, leading to the signing of the Constitution and Declaration of Independence in the great Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. This is why we should think more about Pennsylvania than D.C. when writing our tax laws. Tax reform is how we can once again grow this economy, so it is imperative for Congress to pass a comprehensive tax plan for the president to sign. We need to create massive economic growth in this country so that American families, workers, and small businesses can once again succeed.

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm0382

President Trump has been consistent and clear that this Administration is resolved to addressing the totality of Iran’s destabilizing activities. We will continue to work with our allies to build an agreement that is truly in the best interest of our long-term national security. The United States will cut off the IRGC’s access to capital to fund Iranian malign activity, including its status as the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, its use of ballistic missiles against our allies, its support for the brutal Assad regime in Syria, its human rights violations against its own people, and its abuses of the international financial system.

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-release/sm0280

Hardworking men and women across the country—just like those at the Sheffer Corporation—are receiving bonuses, higher wages, new jobs, and enhanced benefits thanks to tax reform.  Ohioans like those we met today are also receiving billions of dollars per year in tax cuts, which will lead to a more prosperous and secure future.  The President is delivering on his promise to provide relief to middle-income families, make American businesses more competitive, and grow our economy.

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm0239

President Trump’s National Security Strategy protects our national interests and embraces ideals such as peace through strength in order to promote American prosperity.  Treasury plays a vital role in promoting growth and sound security policies in the United States and abroad. We will leverage our powerful financial sanctions and other tools to counter rogue regimes, terrorists, and others who threaten American ideals.  Treasury will implement The President’s vision by leading freer growth policies in the international financial institutions and advancing fundamental principles of free, fair and reciprocal trade.

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm0235

On the eve of this historic moment for our country, President Trump stood with middle-income families and young people who will benefit from the most comprehensive tax reform legislation in over thirty years. The bill that President Trump will sign into law will restore faith in the American dream by creating a simpler, fairer system that will lead to more economic growth and opportunities for everyone. Tax reform will not only provide tax cuts for hardworking Americans and their families, it will also make American businesses more competitive so that workers will have access to more, better-paying jobs.

https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm0217

Today's vote by the U.S. House of Representatives is a historic step towards delivering tax cuts to the American people. We are committed to work with Congress to provide a simpler and fairer tax system that will lead to better jobs for American workers and higher economic growth. I congratulate the House on today's vote. I look forward to continuing to work with the Senate to pass a pro-growth bill as well.