https://www.cnbc.com/2018/04/30/commerce-secretary-ross-president-trumps-tax-plan-is-working-for-america.html

As Americans filed their taxes this spring, they wrestled for the last time with a system that for decades plundered their paychecks and made American businesses uncompetitive.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law by President Trump in December is already benefiting American families, workers, and companies. The United States will continue to reap the economic benefits generated by tax reform for years to come.

The tax cuts mean a typical family of four earning $75,000 a year with two children will see a tax cut of more than $2,000 in 2018. Tax reform increased take-home pay for millions of workers as the updated withholding tables that were phased in earlier this year have increased regular take-home pay for millions of workers.

Working Americans will see several tax benefits from the new law, including: lower tax rates; a doubling of the child tax credit; and the standard deduction nearly doubled. In addition, the tax penalty from the Obamacare mandate was repealed for individuals.

The benefits also extend to businesses, which now operate under a globally competitive tax system for the first time in decades. Reducing the top statutory federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, shifting from a worldwide system of taxation to a mostly territorial tax system, and encouraging the immediate expensing of capital expenditures all are allowing companies to invest and grow here in the United States.

Indeed, over 500 companies have announced that this law is having a favorable impact, resulting in over 5.5 million American workers receiving bonuses, raises, and other benefits.

Since his election, President Trump's focus on boosting economic growth has driven the unemployment rate to near record lows. After more than a decade of stagnation, tax cuts, regulatory reform, and a renewed trade policy have driven GDP growth to a sustainable, healthy level of almost 3 percent.

And almost 3 million jobs have been created since the President's election, including more than 290,000 in the manufacturing sector, which had been losing jobs in the months leading up to the President's election.

The greatest advocate for much-needed economic reform is the President himself. On the campaign trail, he promised to fight on behalf of millions of Americans who were ignored by previous Administrations beholden those willing to export American jobs and American wealth.

The new tax law is just one part of the President's tireless efforts to help hardworking families and rebuild the economy by creating the necessary incentives for companies to invest and grow in America.

Since signing the bill into law, the President has continued to crisscross the country, holding events with workers, families, and business owners. He is committed to doing what few recent Presidents have done before: Listen to the needs of the American people.

In West Virginia, the President spoke with Tony Hodge, a mail carrier, and his wife, Jessica, who said that tax savings are "a big deal for our family." In Iowa, John Anfinson, a small business owner, was equally pleased, telling the President that revisions to the tax code would ensure his family was "going to have about an additional $6,000 that we get to keep."

Business owners throughout the country continue to praise tax reform, stating that the savings is allowing them to invest, raise wages, and hire more employees. Small business confidence has reached record highs since passage of the bill, according to a March 2018 CNBC/Survey Monkey survey.

The American people finally have a tax system that treats them fairly and provides them with new opportunities. President Trump has once again kept his promise to the American people, and thanks in part to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, America is open for business.

https://www.kentucky.com/opinion/op-ed/article221678455.html

On inauguration day, President Donald J. Trump promised America that “the forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer.” In few areas was that promise better fulfilled than for American coal miners.

Before the president took office, eight years of the “War on Coal” had taken its toll on our proud and once thriving coal communities. Between January 2009 and February 2017, the coal mining industry lost 35,500 jobs. From a high in 2009, U.S. coal production had declined by nearly 350 million short tons by the end of 2016 as more than 700 coal mines closed throughout the country.

But now, that decline is over. President Trump has finally ended the “War on Coal.”

The president has acted quickly to remove regulations that were stifling the coal industry. He signed legislation to overturn the costly Stream Protection Rule within one month of his inauguration and issued an executive order two weeks later reviewing the Waters of the United States rule. The next month, the president featured coal workers prominently in his plan for American energy independence. He proposed repealing the so-called Clean Power Plan; lifted the ban on federal leasing for coal production; removed job-killing energy industry regulations, and returned power over local economies to the states.

We at the U.S Department of Commerce are working hard to help revitalize coal country and assist the president as he makes good on his promise to bring back jobs and hope to these forgotten Americans. Through our Economic Development Administration, we are providing new opportunities to Americans whose jobs were eradicated and whose communities were devastated by the antagonistic policies of the last administration.

To help coal country get back on its feet, the Department of Commerce has invested more than $60 million through 65 grants since Trump’s inauguration as part of the Assistance to Coal Communities (ACC) program. The ACC program, launched in June 2017, prioritizes efforts to build infrastructure and invest in the areas hardest hit by the erosion of the coal economy. According to estimates, the grants are expected to create or retain 13,882 jobs and attract over $1.1 billion in private investment across 19 states.

The Department of Commerce is proud to have helped coal communities in four states that have suffered most from the “War on Coal” — Kentucky, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio.

Since the president’s inauguration, Kentucky has been awarded nearly $15 million in grants, which will create an estimated 2,300 jobs, saving another 2,200, and setting the stage for $190 million in private investment.

West Virginia has been awarded more than $13 million in grants for projects expected to create 2,200 jobs, save over 700 jobs, and generate $108 million in private investment. These projects included $2.5 million to expand a manufacturing facility in Elkins, expected to retain 60 jobs, create 111 more and generate $16.9 million in private investment.

Pennsylvania, long a manufacturing center, has received almost $9 million for projects estimated to create 1,250 jobs, retain 100 jobs and stimulate $10 million in additional investment.

In Ohio, coal communities will benefit from $7.5 million in federal grant money, which is expected to create 390 jobs, save 226 and spur $31 million in private investment.

Taken together as a part of the president’s overall economic agenda, these Department of Commerce grants will help revitalize these forgotten communities.

We at the Department of Commerce could not be more pleased to work with President Trump as we invest in and create jobs in the coal communities that have suffered under the policies of the past. As the president promised during his inaugural address, all of America will thrive and prosper. That includes our forgotten coal communities.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/president-trump-wants-my-department-to-keep-space-safe-were-ready/2018/06/19/a3aa96f6-73f8-11e8-9780-b1dd6a09b549_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.34f05a6d571b

We often think of space as a big, empty void, except for the occasional planet, moon or star. But in reality, it’s getting dangerously crowded up there.

More than 20,000 pieces of space debris larger than four inches fly around the planet at blistering speeds of 15,000 to 20,000 mph. Perhaps more concerning are the estimated 600,000 even smaller objects that could still cause significant destruction and devastation. Remember, a lethal bullet is less than four inches long.

This scenario presents a serious concern: It takes only one collision to wreak havoc on our satellite systems. Indeed, a significant portion of existing space debris resulted from just two explosive collisions in space.

Amid the sea of space debris, there are more than 800 operational American satellites, many critical to U.S. national security, communications, earth observations and weather forecasting, public safety, GPS and other vital activities. These devices are the magnificent result of billions of dollars of public and private investment, and efforts must be taken to protect them.

As space activity flourishes and companies begin launching constellations of thousands of satellites, the Trump administration recognizes the dangerous condition of our congested space environment and is taking long-overdue action.

On Monday, President Trump signed Space Policy Directive 3, America’s first comprehensive space traffic management policy. As Vice President Pence previewed during the National Space Symposium in April, the directive states that the Commerce Department should be the new lead civil agency for interfacing with the private sector on space situational awareness — sharing the available tracking data about all those objects in orbit and characterizing the state of the space environment — and space traffic management, which entails planning and coordinating space operations.

The new directive emphasizes safety, stability and sustainability — foundational elements to successful space activities. Further, the president ordered Commerce to lead an interagency effort to establish best practices, technical guidelines, standards and risk assessments to preserve the space environment and prevent on-orbit collisions.

The president’s directive also charges Commerce to develop a data-sharing construct with private operators. The department will engage with industry to better understand the needs of our new mission, possible applications and the potential for public-private collaborations that stimulate novel commercial uses of space data.

To remain the flag of choice for commercial space activity, it is imperative that the United States lead this effort and enhance U.S.-based space activities. Future commercial activities in space — journeys to Mars, asteroid mining and space tourism — will depend upon companies’ access to accurate and usable data that manages traffic and protects their equipment.

The department’s newly expanded space team and plethora of commercial space-related functions present the ideal environment for this responsibility. Unlike in past generations, activity in space is becoming largely commercial. Accordingly, Commerce is uniquely positioned to partner with industry on development of space traffic standards and best practices.

We are the friend-of-business agency. We work hand in hand with multiple industry sectors. And Commerce fully understands the value of public-private collaboration. Perhaps most importantly, our mind-set is that of a facilitator of safe commerce, not a typical, old-fashioned regulator. We have a new mantra: Government must engage not just in oversight but also insight and foresight.

The department also houses a diverse array of invaluable experts. Our new Space Policy Advancing Commercial Enterprise Administration will coordinate the involvement of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, which manages federal spectrum use for space communications. In addition, the National Institute of Standards and Technology has a proven track record of working with industry to conduct research and define scientific standards for business needs.

Moreover, Commerce’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration already oversees the country’s largest operational civil satellite fleet and provides input to current space situational awareness and space traffic management functions as the world’s authoritative resource for timely and accurate space environmental monitoring. And our International Trade Administration frequently assists companies with trade-promotion economic analyses.

Commercial activity and congestion in space will only increase. By 2022, those 800 American satellites in space will increase to an estimated 15,000. As companies launch massive satellite constellations, the risk of collision damage becomes more severe. Even a small piece of space “junk” could trigger a celestial-size pinball game — a chain reaction leading to incalculable damage.

This threat is why President Trump’s announcement comes at such a crucial time in history. Commerce is ready to get to work.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/wilbur-ross-these-nafta-rules-are-killing-our-jobs/2017/09/21/657bee58-9ee6-11e7-9083-fbfddf6804c2_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.a794329b5890

As the North American Free Trade Agreement negotiations unfold, there is a lot of loose talk being exchanged about automobile parts going back and forth among the United States, Canada and Mexico. NAFTA supporters assert that the U.S. content in cars assembled in Canada and Mexico is particularly high and that therefore our $70 billion-plus trade deficits with our NAFTA partners are not worrisome.

That would be a great argument if it were correct. But it isn't. That argument is neither true of motor vehicles nor of manufactured goods in general.

A study to be released Friday by Anne Flatness and Chris Rasmussen of the Office of Trade and Economic Analysis within the Commerce Department proves its falsity. The study, based on Trade in Value Added data recently released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, shows that between 1995, the year after NAFTA went into effect, and 2011, U.S. content of manufactured goods imported from Canada dropped significantly — from 21 percent to 15 percent. U.S. content in goods imported from Mexico fell even more — from 26 percent to 16 percent. The data is available only until 2011, but there is no reason to think that the situation has improved since then.

The numbers for the automobile industry specifically are similar — not surprising because automobiles account for 27 percent of total imports from Canada and Mexico. Indeed, automobiles drive the U.S. trade deficit with those countries; the United States would enjoy a trade surplus with its NAFTA partners were it not for the trade deficit in autos and auto parts.

These data debunk the claim that U.S. content in the form of parts is so high that we shouldn't worry about headline gross-deficit figures. Nor is this a trivial concern: Canada and Mexico combined are the largest source of manufactured products imported into the United States, accounting for nearly a quarter of our imports.

This problem is particularly troubling because the previous U.S. share of the content found in imports from Canada and Mexico is largely being absorbed by non-NAFTA trading partners, not by Canada and Mexico themselves. The share of content from foreign countries other than Canada and Mexico has almost doubled in our imports from Mexico, from 14 percent to 27 percent. The non-NAFTA content of our imports from Canada likewise rose, from 12 percent to 21 percent.

We cannot forget that the point of a free-trade agreement is to advantage those within the agreement — not to help outsiders. Instead, NAFTA has provided entry into a bigger market for outside countries, and the United States is paying the price. While NAFTA has achieved its goal of increasing three-way trade in absolute terms, American workers and businesses are not benefiting in a way that is fair and reciprocal.

What does this mean for U.S. jobs?

Hundreds of thousands of Americans go to work every day in the automobile manufacturing industry. The declining U.S. share of content in imports from Canada and Mexico puts those jobs at risk. The United States accounts for an overwhelming share of the total NAFTA auto market today — 83 percent, in fact — yet American workers are not reaping the benefits of that purchasing power.


So, why is this happening?

NAFTA included "rules of origin" provisions that were intended to restrict the non-NAFTA content in final goods. Yet the numbers above show that the opposite has, in fact, happened.

Unfortunately, NAFTA rules of origin on automobiles listed the exact parts to which the rules of origin applied, and many of those parts are no longer used. Another reason is that the rules include a concept called substantial transformation, which means that if further processing of a non-NAFTA item is done by a NAFTA partner, the non-NAFTA items are "transformed" and are deemed to have been produced in the United States, Canada or Mexico.

These facts are why U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer announced that two major objectives for NAFTA are raising the total NAFTA content requirement and raising the U.S. share of that requirement, especially in autos and auto parts.

Autos and auto parts are particularly important because our combined trade deficit in autos and auto parts from Canada and Mexico is $84.6 billion annually, which is the vast majority of our total trade in goods deficit with our neighbors. Only $14.6 billion of that deficit is offset by surpluses in other product categories. That is why we have a NAFTA net trade deficit in goods of $70 billion.

If we don't fix the rules of origin, negotiations on the rest of the agreement will fail to meaningfully shift the trade imbalance. Our nation's ballooning trade deficit has gutted American manufacturing, killed jobs and sapped our wealth. That is going to change under President Trump, and rules of origin are just the beginning.

https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/24/opinion/that-moon-colony-will-be-a-reality-sooner-than-you-think.html

The first man on the moon held an American flag. In the not-too-distant future, astronauts on the moon may be holding fuel pumps.

The future for American commercial space activity is bright. Space entrepreneurs are already planning travel to Mars, and they are looking to the moon as the perfect location for a way station to refuel and restock Mars-bound rockets. As much as this sounds like the plot of “2001: A Space Odyssey,” it is coming closer to reality sooner than you may have ever thought possible.

A privately funded American space industry is the reason. This industry is making progress in leaps and bounds. The global space economy is approaching $350 billion and is expected to become a multitrillion-dollar industry. There are more than 800 operational American satellites in orbit, and by 2024 that number could exceed 15,000. Thanks to public-private partnerships, for the first time in seven years American rockets will soon carry NASA astronauts into space. Long dormant, Cape Canaveral is now bustling with activity. America is leading in space once again.

Space tourism may only be a year away. Tickets for human flights into lower earth orbit have already sold for $250,000 each. Earth-based mining companies may soon face stiff competition from the mining of gold, silver, platinum and rare earths on asteroids and even other planets. A race is already developing to create the technology that will bring those crucial resources back to earth.

Competition is already fierce, with Russia and China challenging the United States for leadership, and about 70 other countries working their way into space. But today’s space race is different. It is driven by innovative companies that are finding new solutions to get to space faster, cheaper and more effectively.

As these companies advance new ideas for space commerce and nontraditional approaches to space travel, they seek the legitimacy and stability that comes with government support and approval. They yearn for a government that acts as a facilitator, not just a regulator. Government must create frameworks that enable, rather than stifle, industry.

Unfortunately, our system for regulating private space exploration and commerce has not kept up with this rapidly changing industry. For example, when it comes to licensing cameras in space, we review small, high school science-project satellites the same as billion-dollar national defense assets, leaving too little time and too few resources for crucial national security needs.

On Thursday, President Trump signed Space Policy Directive 2, which will make important strides toward modernizing our outdated space policies. These changes include creating a new office, the Space Policy Advancing Commercial Enterprise Administration, within my office to oversee coordination of the department’s commercial space activities, establishing a “one-stop shop” to work on behalf of the budding private space sector.

This will be a major change. At my department alone, there are six bureaus involved in the space industry. A unified departmental office for business needs will enable better coordination of space-related activities. To this end, I have directed all Commerce Department bureaus with space responsibilities to assign a liaison to the new Space Administration team, including the International Trade Administration, Bureau of Industry and Security, National Telecommunications and Information Administration and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

When companies seek guidance on launching satellites, the Space Administration will be able to address an array of space activities, including remote sensing, economic development, data-purchase policies, GPS, spectrum policy, trade promotion, standards and technology and space-traffic management. The new office will also enable the department to manage its growing responsibilities in space.

The department will take on a greater role when it comes to regulation and promotion of space activity. But as the agency charged with promoting job creation and economic growth, we will not engage only in oversight, but will support American companies so they can compete and lead on a level playing field.

Collectively, these efforts will unshackle American industry and ensure American leadership in space. This is essential to technological innovation, economic growth, jobs and national security. But, perhaps more important, it is rejuvenating the American passion for space exploration.

I can still remember when President John F. Kennedy declared that America would put a man on the moon and when Neil Armstrong took that first step on the lunar landscape. Glued to televisions, Americans were filled with excitement and national pride during the Apollo missions.

Last month I felt that same passion as I visited the Space Symposium in Colorado Springs with Vice President Mike Pence. “As we push human exploration deeper into space, we will unleash the boundless potential of America’s pioneering commercial space companies,” the vice president told the crowd.

This is a very special time in space history — there is a convergence of technology, capital, and political will. The United States must seize this moment.

https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/why-i-invested-in-richie-boucher-by-wilbur-ross-30033153.html

OUR due diligence on BoI convinced us that Richie was the right leader for BoI. Subsequent events have confirmed that – though I do think he has had the toughest job of any of our portfolio bank CEOs.

At first he had to defend himself in fitness and probity investigations while simultaneously adjusting to a new mix of board and shareholders – all the time making decisions that were necessary, but sure to attract public and political criticism.

He never flinched.

Turnaround investors like myself always try to accelerate the pace of change, but I don't think there is much he could have done faster.

His approach to delinquent loans recognised that modifications had to address both ability to pay and willingness to pay, and that the bank needed to signal its policies clearly and consistently and to rebut the arguments of nay-sayers. He did so and in my view has done the best job of any Irish banker in bringing down delinquencies via effective loan modifications without unduly compromising principal amounts.

He took a sensitive leadership position in negotiating the new groundrules for insolvency regimes. His tireless efforts to restore net interest margins to adequate levels have become controversial, but are essential to recreating a sound banking system without which Ireland would not prosper.

Staff matters have been another difficult challenge. Think how hard it is to maintain morale when you are closing branches, seeking thousands of redundancies and have pay caps and two renegotiations of pension benefits. Yet each was essential and needed immediately.

Failure to accomplish anyone of these daunting tasks would have derailed the whole resuscitation of the bank. Pensions alone were a €1bn-plus unfillable hole and the cost reductions from employee redundancies exceeded €300m per year.

Then there was the capital structure. The Government had cleverly constructed a complex spider web of financial engineering – it protected its own interest but put the bank and its common shareholders very much at risk.

Richie dealt one by one with the ELGs of deposits, which were costing over €300m per year. It would have made his life easier to leave them in place, but he led the charge for their removal – and finally succeeded last March.

Then there was the convertible preference shares that eventually would have cost him hundreds of millions of euro. To deal with the clumsy financial structure, he had to regain access to the international capital markets simultaneously with the Government's efforts to do the same.

Even before the turnaround became obvious, Richie and his team began courting Wall Street. He articulated his plans, presented realistic goals and timetables, and gradually built credibility by delivering what he promised – despite early scepticism on the part of many observers.

At this point, BoI returned to the State the capital, fees, interest and dividends in excess of the Government's gross commitment to the bank. Government still retains common equity which has a market value of about €1.3bn.

The bank's successes and those of Government have been mutually reinforcing, just as their earlier travails were mutually debilitating. Neither could have done as well without the other's achievements – and that will remain true as the Irish economic recovery continues. But the relationship between two has been inherently complex.

The Irish State has been not only the biggest financial stakeholder, but also needed to insulate itself from the risk that BoI might fail again. This meant that the regulatory side of government had to be very strict, even though that might not be best for the investment side.

This came to a head recently when the Regulators conducted yet another stress test which concluded that, under the most dire circumstances, as much as €800m more of loan losses might be incurred. Even earlier, in June, the Regulator pushed the bank to take and extra €100m.

Meanwhile, the Irish property market has been turning around – as has the economy – and actual delinquencies seem to be well under control. I don't know how much of the stress test numbers management the board and the auditors will decide to record in the year-end report (to be issued March 3), but my personal belief is that the vast bulk of this rainy day provision will never be needed to cover actual losses.

It is comforting to know that BoI could withstand great stress, but every day that goes by reduces the risk that stress case conditions will ever become reality. The Regulators did acknowledge that despite the stress test results BoI did not need to raise more capital.

In any event, I believe that Richie's ultimate vindication will begin in 2014 as the bank achieves its goal of profitability.

That may not silence the anti-Richie, anti-bank or anti-government crowd – but at least Richie will have the personal satisfaction that he engineered the most successful European bank turnaround, and the only Irish one so far since the crisis.

The task ahead is not to let up and to keep the momentum going.

https://www.realclearpolicy.com/articles/2016/10/30/donald_trumps_contract_with_the_american_voter.html

Donald Trump’s Gettysburg Address on October 22, 2016 laid out a 100-day blueprint for growth that will turn the sinking economy around immediately. This is an Obama-Clinton ship that is hopelessly adrift in the doldrums of high taxes, over-regulation, open borders, a war on American energy, the Obamacare disaster, crumbling infrastructure, and a trade policy that ships our jobs overseas even as it imports massive trade deficits and stagnant wages.

This analysis provides a concise summary of Donald Trump’s Contract with the American Voter, delivered at Gettysburg. It explains how this contract will expand rapidly America’s shrinking middle class.

The Obama-Clinton economy has given us the slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression. One in four Americans in the prime working ages of 25–54 are not employed. Nearly one in six men aged 18–34 are either in jail or out of work. 45 million Americans suffer in poverty. The real median household income is $1,274 lower than it was in the year 2000.

Since 2002, we have lost over 70,000 factories and 5 million manufacturing jobs. Our annual trade deficit in goods has ballooned to $766 billion while we lose over $300 billion a year to intellectual property theft.

The offshoring of American jobs to destinations such as China and Mexico has only accelerated during the Obama-Clinton years as a consequence of bad trade deals. These bad deals range from Bill Clinton’s signing of NAFTA in 1993 and his 2001 shoehorning of China into the World Trade Organization to Hillary Clinton’s 2012 South Korea deal. The South Korea deal promised 70,000 new jobs, but instead has destroyed close to 100,000 jobs, primarily in our critical auto industry, while doubling our trade deficit.

Key manufacturing states, such as Michigan, Ohio, and North Carolina, have been particularly hard hit. Michigan has lost more than a fourth of its manufacturing jobs since Clinton’s 1993 NAFTA and 2001 China trade deals went into effect; Ohio has lost more than a third; and North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA’s ratification. Michigan, Ohio, and North Carolina farmers have lost out too. U.S. exports to Canada and Mexico of cattle — top agricultural products in these states — have fallen more than 45 percent in the first 22 years of NAFTA.

Under Obamacare — or, as it was once known, Hillarycare — our health care system is imploding while premiums are exploding. Three of the five big insurers — Aetna, United Healthcare, and Humana — have pulled out of the Obamacare exchanges after losing hundreds of millions of dollars. Seventeen of the non-profit health-insurance co-ops in the system, which received $2.4 billion in taxpayer funds, have failed. Five others are on the brink of collapse. Premiums have skyrocketed by double-digits nationwide: Arizona is up 116 percent; Pennsylvania by 53 percent; North Carolina by 40 percent.

Under Obama-Clinton, urgently needed infrastructure projects have also been routinely delayed for years due to endless studies, red-tape, and obstructionist lawsuits. More than 60,000 American bridges are now considered “structurally deficient.” Traffic congestion costs the U.S. economy over $100 billion annually. The water in cities like Flint, Michigan is unfit to drink, and 6 million Americans are exposed to contaminated water.

At a fiscal level, the Obama administration has doubled our national debt in just eight years, from $10 trillion to $20 trillion. Yet, despite this, we’ve seen crumbling infrastructure, an under-invested space program, a navy shrunk to its smallest level since World War I, and America’s military readiness threatened — even as the Obama-Clinton foreign policy has unleashed ISIS and Hillary Clinton’s saber-rattling in Syria could trigger a third World War.

The policies the Trump administration will put in place and begin to pursue in the first 100 days will raise wages and put money in the pockets of all Americans. Businesses will hire again and our economy will grow again.

Trump’s plan will create a sustainable growth rate of at least 3.5 percent and as high as 4 percent while creating 25 million jobs. Faster growth will mean trillions of dollars in additional revenues that will make Social Security and Medicare more secure — programs that Hillary Clinton expressed support for cutting when speaking in private to financial executives — and allow us to rebuild our shrinking military and crumbling infrastructure.

Trump’s Tax Reforms. On day one, President Trump will move forward with his Middle Class Tax Relief and Simplification Act. The largest tax reductions are for the middle class.

A middle-class family with two children will get a 35 percent tax cut. The current number of brackets will be reduced from seven to three, and tax forms will be greatly simplified so that they can fit on a single page. The Trump tax cuts will put money in the pocket of millions of Americans, money they can use to buy goods and services in their neighborhoods, thereby stimulating growth and raising living standards.

According to the Tax Foundation, the Trump tax plan alone would increase the size of the economy by 7–8 percent; increase wages by 5–6 percent; and increase the capital stock by more than 20 percent.

Small businesses — the backbone of our economy — will see their tax rate cut by more than half, from 35 to 15 percent. They will use those savings to hire and expand in communities across the country.

The trillions of dollars of American money now parked overseas to avoid punitive tax rates will stream back with the promise of a one-time 10 percent rate.

The Tax Foundation estimates that the Trump tax plan will itself increase GDP by almost one percentage point per year. They estimate that the Clinton tax plan, in contrast, will decrease GDP by more than a quarter percent per year.

Trump’s Trade Reforms. On day one, the Trump administration will announce America’s intention to renegotiate NAFTA or withdraw from the deal under Article 2205; withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership; and order the Treasury Department to label any country undervaluing its currency to gain competitive advantage over U.S. manufacturers a currency manipulator. President Trump will direct the Secretary of Commerce and U.S. Trade Representative to root out and stop every unfair trade practice being used against American workers and domestic manufacturers.

A President Trump will also work with Congress to pass the “End The Offshoring Act.” This will establish tariffs to discourage companies from laying off their workers in order to relocate to other countries and ship their products back to the U.S. tax-free.

This combination of bold and visionary trade reforms will eliminate our massive trade deficits by increasing exports and reducing imports and add a point or more to our annual real GDP growth rate. Moreover, these reforms will create over a million more jobs in year one of a Trump administration towards the goal of 25 million jobs, and generate over $1.7 trillion in additional tax revenues over a 10-year budget window.

Through the enforcement of our trade laws and by stopping the inflow of illegally subsidized steel and other products at below-market prices, capital will flow into our mining, logging, steel, aluminum and heavy industries, as businessmen regain confidence that predatory trade practices will not underprice them.

Trump’s Regulatory Reforms. On day one, President Trump will impose a temporary moratorium on all new regulations not compelled by Congress or public safety, order an agency-level regulatory review to eliminate wasteful regulations, and require that for every new federal regulation, two existing regulations be eliminated. Trump will thereby dramatically reduce America’s annual regulatory burden of $2 trillion — about $15,000 per household according to the Competitive Enterprise Institute.

Over a 10-year budget window, these regulatory reforms will generate close to a half a trillion dollars in additional revenues while spurring growth. Businesses will have the certainty they need to invest in new plant and equipment as well as new product lines, confident that federal bureaucrats won’t come up with some new rules to punish them. A reduced regulatory burden will allow us to compete and win on the world stage — we will stop hamstringing American production.

Trump’s Energy Reforms. On day one, President Trump will lift the restrictions on the production of $50 trillion worth of job-producing American energy reserves, including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal. He will lift the Obama-Clinton roadblocks and allow vital energy infrastructure projects to move forward.

According to The Wall Street Journal, “more than a dozen [energy infrastructure] projects, worth about $33 billion, have been either rejected by regulators or withdrawn by developers since 2012, with billions more tied up in projects still in regulatory limbo.” This includes coal and shale energy export facilities.

Major pipelines are being blocked as well. As noted in The Wall Street Journal, blocking such projects “leaves some communities without access to lower-cost fuel and higher-paying jobs.” The Keystone XL Pipeline, alone, would amount to an $8 billion investment in U.S. infrastructure and create 42,000 jobs.

According to the Heritage Foundation, by 2030 the Obama-Clinton energy restrictions will eliminate another half a million manufacturing jobs, reduce economic output by $2.5 trillion dollars, and reduce incomes by $7,000 dollars per person.

The Institute for Energy Research calculates that lifting unnecessary restrictions on all sources of American energy (such as coal and onshore and offshore oil and gas) will increase GDP by more than $100 billion annually, add over 500,000 new jobs annually, and increase annual wages by more than $30 billion over the next seven years. Lifting such restrictions will also increase federal, state, and local tax revenues by almost $6 trillion over four decades and increase total economic activity by more than $20 trillion over the next 40 years.

By unleashing America’s abundant energy sector, both businesses and consumers will see lower energy and electricity costs. Thus, our businesses will become more competitive while the purchasing power of consumers will only increase. These forces will, in turn, further stimulate growth and generate additional income and revenues.

Trump’s Infrastructure Reforms. America’s infrastructure is crumbling. Over the past eight years, urgently needed projects have been routinely delayed due to endless studies, red tape, and obstructionist lawsuits. The U.S. now ranks ninth in roads investment as a percent of GDP and twelfth on the Global Competitiveness Index in infrastructure.

On day one, President Trump will cancel billions in payments to U.N. climate change programs and use the money to help fix America’s water and environmental infrastructure. On day one, Donald Trump will move forward with his proposed American Infrastructure Act.

This act will transform America’s crumbling infrastructure into a golden opportunity for accelerated economic growth and more rapid productivity gains. This revenue-neutral plan leverages public-private partnerships and private investments through the help of tax incentives to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment over 10 years. It will create thousands of new jobs in construction, steel manufacturing, and other sectors to build the transportation, water, telecommunications and energy infrastructures needed to enable new economic development in the U.S.

Trump’s Immigration Reforms. On day one, President Trump will move forward to pass the End Illegal Immigration Act, beginning with a border wall. A Trump Administration will also cancel all federal funding to “sanctuary cities.”

The End Illegal Immigration Act establishes a two-year mandatory minimum federal prison sentence for those illegally re-entering the U.S. after a previous deportation, and a five-year mandatory minimum for those illegally re-entering with felony convictions, multiple misdemeanor convictions, or two or more prior deportations. It reforms visa rules to enhance penalties for overstaying and to ensure open jobs are offered to American workers first.

Our current corporate donor-driven immigration system punishes American workers, particularly African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans. It does so by flooding our labor market with additional workers, thereby reducing job opportunities for those already here, displacing American workers, and depressing wages.

According to a new study issued by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), our current immigration system increases deficits at the local, state, and federal levels by up to $300 billion annually.

As president, Trump will reform our immigration programs so they no longer depress wages and displace American workers. He will add a self-sufficiency requirement so immigration ceases to impose a fiscal deficit, and institute a merit-based system for future entry.

Trump’s Health Care Reforms. On day one, President Trump will move to repeal Obamacare. The Congressional Budget Office calculates Obamacare will result in 2 million fewer jobs in 2017, rising to about 2.5 million in 2024.

Nearly 6 million Americans are now working part-time jobs because they are unable to find full-time jobs, and nearly 8 million more are working multiple jobs, often because employers have cut their hours below 29 hours a week to avoid the costly regulation of Obamacare. These workers will go back to work in full when President Trump repeals and replaces Obamacare, a signal failure of the Obama-Clinton regime. By contrast, Hillarycare would double down on this failure and institute a job killing, economically devastating government-wide health care takeover.

Consumer incentives, more competition, and more choice in a free and open market are the keys to reducing health care costs and improving quality, not more government. Trump will replace Obamacare with Health Savings Accounts and the ability to purchase health insurance across state lines. Reforms will also include cutting FDA red tape and speeding the approval of life-saving medications — there are now over 4,000 drugs awaiting such approval. States, not the federal government, will manage Medicaid funds through generous block grants. These reforms will be important steps in bringing rapidly rising health care costs finally under control.

At least 1.4 million Americans in 33 states are about to lose their plans in 2017 because of the failure of Obamacare exchanges. Insurers have dropped out of these exchanges in droves, and almost one in five Americans using exchanges will only have one insurance company to choose from.

Obama promised, “if you like your health care plan, you can keep it” and that premiums would go down. Yet, despite all the false promises of Obamacare, Hillary Clinton’s campaign would have more of the same.

With the Trump plan, by contrast, Americans will have freedom, choice, and affordability in health care.

Trump’s Child Care and Elder Care Reforms. On day one, President Trump will move forward with the Affordable Child Care and Elder Care Act. This will allow Americans to deduct child care and elder care from their taxes, incentivize employers to provide on-site child care services, and create tax-free Dependent Care Savings Accounts for both young and elderly dependents, with matching contributions for low-income families.

As a result of these reforms, families will have thousands of dollars more disposable income to save or spend, thereby driving additional investment and growth. Flexibility in the federal regulation of day care providers will spur new child care solutions in small towns and rural America.

Donald Trump believes in American workers, opportunity, free markets, and individual liberty. His goal is prosperity.

Trump’s pro-growth agenda will get this economy growing and thereby make America great again. It is a solemn promise based on a solid set of interactive and highly synergistic policies designed to free the American economy from the chains that have been wrapped around it during the Obama-Clinton years. The sum of its parts create a much more prosperous whole.

Clinton’s plan is to grow government, not our economy. She proposes higher taxes that will discourage the capital investment we need for growth, more regulation that will hobble America’s small businesses, and further restrictions on American energy that will raise energy and electricity costs significantly. Clinton will also double down on the trade policies and trade deals that she has helped put in place and which have led to chronic trade deficits, reduced economic growth, and weakened sovereignty.

Hillary Clinton will also double down on Obamacare, putting the health care of millions of American families in jeopardy. And, finally, she pledges to fulfill her dream of “open borders” that harms American workers and massively threatens national security.

The economics in this presidential race are clear. One candidate’s policies point in the direction of growth and prosperity; the other candidate’s policies are a recipe for poverty, failure, and misery.

